_source/user-guide/kibana/index.md, before:

---
layout: article
title: OpenSearch Dashboards
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Logz.io intro to Log Management
permalink: /user-guide/logs/
flags:
  logzio-plan: community
tags:
  - kibana
  - opensearchdashboards
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
  - shalper
  - hidan
---

OpenSearch Dashboards (OSD) is where you search and query your logs to figure out what happened. It is optimized for debugging and troubleshooting issues as quickly and effectively as possible.

You can use the Discover page to filter logs, search for specific events, and create alerts based on your search queries.

On this page you'll find:

* toc list
{:toc}


![OSD Overview](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/osd-discover/osd-main-screen.png)

#### Searching your logs

OpenSearch Dashboards is designed to help you investigate massive volumes of data as quickly as possible. Filters, search phrases, and a date picker or relative time range selector are all designed to help you find the logs you want. Together, they are the _query criteria_ that determine which logs are returned from your logging database.

<div class="tasklist">

##### Account

First, decide which accounts you want to search. Managing your accounts is the first step to successful logging. You can create sub accounts to separate data by environment, microservice, team, and more. [Learn more about account management and sub accounts.]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/accounts/manage-the-main-account-and-sub-accounts.html)

##### Filters

OpenSearch Dashboards filters offer the most convenient, powerful, and flexible method for querying logs.

Filters can be used on any mapped fields and can take any number of forms: filter for field exists or does not exist, filter for a field with an exact value match or a field that contains a value among the results, and more. [Learn more about OSD mapping]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/logs/mapping/)

One advantage of OpenSearch filters is that they provide guidance that is specific to your dataset.
When OpenSearch maps your data to fields, it also determines which filtering options are relevant. When you add filters, only relevant options appear in the dropdown menus.

Another advantage is that filters can be inverted, temporarily disabled, edited, and more using the filter menu.

##### Search bar

You can type a search query in Lucene syntax or DQL. It is an alternative to filtering that requires a little familiarity with the search syntax. Almost anything that can be defined in the Search bar can be accomplished using filters as well.

You can also save your search query in case you want to use them again in the future. Save or load search queries by clicking on the **Save** icon located next to the search bar. 

![Save search query](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/osd-discover/save-search-query.png)

###### Regex
{:.no_toc}

To use Regex in a search query in OpenSearch, you'll need to use the following template: 

`fieldName:/.*value.*/`.

For example, you have a field called `sentence` that holds the following line: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog".

To find one of the values in the field, such as `fox`, you'll need to use the following query:

`sentence:/.*fox.*/`.

##### Time frame and date picker

The default time frame in OpenSearch Dashboards is always the last 15 minutes.

You can select the time frame in any number of ways, including relative times such as the last hour, today so far, or the day before yesterday, or use absolute times by calendar dates and timestamps.

##### Results

The logs returned by your search are your results - aka "hits". Depending on the time frame you've selected, the results can be set to continuously auto-refresh and can be quite dynamic.

* **Histogram** -  The Histogram shows the distribution of logs over time. It is often easier to see when logs were sent when graphed directly on the timeline. You can also select a time range directly from the histogram using a drag-and-drop motion or by clicking a data bar.

* **Logs** - The log document table displays a preview of your top results, arranged with the most recent results at the top. The default fields are **time** and **message**, but you can toggle the fields that interest you in and out. 

  To expand a log, click it and review the complete log mapped into field:value pairs. You can also switch to the raw JSON.

* **Patterns** - Logz.io groups your logs using advanced clustering techniques to help you identify similar logs by groups, reducing the amount of logs to review. Patterns also help to surface issues and errors that might otherwise go unnoticed. [Learn more]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/logs/log-patterns.html)

* **Exceptions** - Logz.io Insights Engine scans your logs for application errors and warnings to help you identify issues that require your attention. [Learn more]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/insights/exceptions/) 

##### Take action following your results

The number of hits shows you the number of results returned by your query. This is the count of the total number of log documents that answer the query criteria.

If you click the **Inspect** function, you can view the query as sent to OpenSearch. This is useful if you are using the [Logz.io API]({{site.baseurl}}/api/), for example.

Once you've refined a query to the point that it returns exactly what you are looking for, you can be proactive in any number of ways:

* Create an **alert** to trigger automatically and send out notifications to your preferred endpoints. [Learn how to configure an alert.]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/alerts/configure-an-alert.html)
* **Save** the search to display it in visualizations and dashboards or to load it in the future.
* **Share** results with colleagues or external stakeholders.
* **Export** results to a spreadsheet.


###### Additional resources
{:.no_toc}

* [Read more](https://logz.io/blog/kibana-advanced/) about creating and running advanced searches in OpenSearch Dashboards.

Commit message:

Support tickets - March 23 (#2291)
* combining steps

* combining pages

* updating intro and best

* exists

* oops

* remove duplicates

_source/user-guide/kibana/index.md, after:

---
layout: article
title: OpenSearch Dashboards
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Logz.io intro to Log Management
permalink: /user-guide/logs/
flags:
  logzio-plan: community
tags:
  - kibana
  - opensearchdashboards
  - search logs
  - search opensearch dashboards
  - search
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
  - shalper
  - hidan
---

OpenSearch Dashboards (OSD) is where you search and query your logs to figure out what happened. It is optimized for debugging and troubleshooting issues as quickly and effectively as possible.

You can use the Discover page to filter logs, search for specific events, and create alerts based on your search queries.

On this page you'll find:

* toc list
{:toc}


![OSD Overview](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/osd-discover/osd-main-screen.png)

#### Overview

OpenSearch Dashboards is designed to help you investigate massive volumes of data as quickly as possible. Filters, search phrases, and a date picker or relative time range selector are all designed to help you find the logs you want. Together, they are the _query criteria_ that determine which logs are returned from your logging database.

<div class="tasklist">

##### Account

First, decide which accounts you want to search. Managing your accounts is the first step to successful logging. You can create sub accounts to separate data by environment, microservice, team, and more. [Learn more about account management and sub accounts.]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/accounts/manage-the-main-account-and-sub-accounts.html)

##### Filters

OpenSearch Dashboards filters offer the most convenient, powerful, and flexible method for querying logs.

Filters can be used on any mapped fields and can take any number of forms: filter for field exists or does not exist, filter for a field with an exact value match or a field that contains a value among the results, and more. [Learn more about OSD mapping]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/logs/mapping/)

One advantage of OpenSearch filters is that they provide guidance that is specific to your dataset.
When OpenSearch maps your data to fields, it also determines which filtering options are relevant. When you add filters, only relevant options appear in the dropdown menus.

Another advantage is that filters can be inverted, temporarily disabled, edited, and more using the filter menu.

##### Search bar

You can type a search query in Lucene syntax or DQL. It is an alternative to filtering that requires a little familiarity with the search syntax. Almost anything that can be defined in the Search bar can be accomplished using filters as well.

You can also save your search query in case you want to use them again in the future. Save or load search queries by clicking on the **Save** icon located next to the search bar. 

![Save search query](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/osd-discover/save-search-query.png)

###### Regex
{:.no_toc}

Logz.io uses Apache Lucene's regular expression engine to parse regex queries, supporting regexp and query_string.

While Lucene's regex supports all Unicode characters, several characters are reserved as operators and cannot be searched on their own:

`. ? + * | { } [ ] ( ) " \`

Depending on the optional operators enabled, some additional characters may also be reserved. These characters are:

`# @ & < >  ~`

However, you can still use reserved characters by applying a backslash or double-quotes. For example:

`\*` will render as a * sign.

`\#` will render as a # sign.

`\()` will render as brackets.


To use Regex in a search query in OpenSearch, you'll need to use the following template: 

`fieldName:/.*value.*/`.

For example, you have a field called `sentence` that holds the following line: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog".

To find one of the values in the field, such as `fox`, you'll need to use the following query:

`sentence:/.*fox.*/`.

Or, if you want to find a string or value in all of your logs, you can use the `exists` query with the relevant value. For example:

`_exists_:"error"`. 

##### Time frame and date picker

The default time frame in OpenSearch Dashboards is always the last 15 minutes.

You can select the time frame in any number of ways, including relative times such as the last hour, today so far, or the day before yesterday, or use absolute times by calendar dates and timestamps.

##### Results

The logs returned by your search are your results - aka "hits". Depending on the time frame you've selected, the results can be set to continuously auto-refresh and can be quite dynamic.

* **Histogram** -  The Histogram shows the distribution of logs over time. It is often easier to see when logs were sent when graphed directly on the timeline. You can also select a time range directly from the histogram using a drag-and-drop motion or by clicking a data bar.

* **Logs** - The log document table displays a preview of your top results, arranged with the most recent results at the top. The default fields are **time** and **message**, but you can toggle the fields that interest you in and out. 

  To expand a log, click it and review the complete log mapped into field:value pairs. You can also switch to the raw JSON.

* **Patterns** - Logz.io groups your logs using advanced clustering techniques to help you identify similar logs by groups, reducing the amount of logs to review. Patterns also help to surface issues and errors that might otherwise go unnoticed. [Learn more]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/logs/log-patterns.html)

* **Exceptions** - Logz.io Insights Engine scans your logs for application errors and warnings to help you identify issues that require your attention. [Learn more]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/insights/exceptions/) 

##### Take action following your results

The number of hits shows you the number of results returned by your query. This is the count of the total number of log documents that answer the query criteria.

If you click the **Inspect** function, you can view the query as sent to OpenSearch. This is useful if you are using the [Logz.io API]({{site.baseurl}}/api/), for example.

Once you've refined a query to the point that it returns exactly what you are looking for, you can be proactive in any number of ways:

* Create an **alert** to trigger automatically and send out notifications to your preferred endpoints. [Learn how to configure an alert.]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/alerts/configure-an-alert.html)
* **Save** the search to display it in visualizations and dashboards or to load it in the future.
* **Share** results with colleagues or external stakeholders.
* **Export** results to a spreadsheet.


###### Additional resources
{:.no_toc}

* [OpenSearch Dashboards best practices](/user-guide/logs/best-practices.html)
* [Create and run advanced searches in OpenSearch Dashboards](https://logz.io/blog/kibana-advanced/)
