_source/logzio_collections/_log-sources/fluentd-helm.md, before:

---
title: Ship Kubernetes logs with Fluentd over Helm
logo:
  logofile: kubernetes.svg
  orientation: vertical
short-description: Ship Kubernetes logs with Fluentd over Helm
data-source: Kubernetes over Helm with Fluentd
data-for-product-source: Logs
shipping-tags:
  - log-shipper
open-source:
  - title: logzio-helm
    github-repo: logzio-helm
contributors:
  - mirii1994
shipping-tags:
  - agents
  - container
order: 180
---
<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Multiline logs](#multiline)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="overview">
### Logzio-fluentd

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is a tool for managing packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources using Charts.
Logzio-fluentd allows you to ship logs from your Kubernetes cluster to Logz.io, using Fluentd.
Fluentd is flexible enough and has the proper plugins to distribute logs to different third parties such as Logz.io.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
The chart defaults to configuration for Conatinerd CRI. If your cluster uses Docker as CRI, please refer to `daemonset.containerdRuntime` in the [configuration table](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Fluentd will fetch all existing logs, as it is not able to ignore older logs.
{:.info-box.important}
<!-- info-box-end -->

###### Sending logs from nodes with taints

If you want to ship logs from any of the nodes that have a taint, make sure that the taint key values are listed in your in your daemonset/deployment configuration as follows:
  
```yaml
tolerations:
- key: 
  operator: 
  value: 
  effect: 
```
  
To determine if a node uses taints as well as to display the taint keys, run:
  
```
kubectl get nodes -o json | jq ".items[]|{name:.metadata.name, taints:.spec.taints}"
```

#### Deploying the Chart

<div class="tasklist">


##### Create a monitoring namespace

Your DaemonSet will be deployed under the namespace `monitoring`.

```shell
kubectl create namespace monitoring
```

##### Add logzio-fluentd repo to your helm repo list

```shell
helm repo add logzio-helm https://logzio.github.io/logzio-helm
```

##### Deploy

The following command will install the Chart with the default values.
If you wish to change some of the values, add to this command `--set` flag(s) with the parameter(s) you'd like to change. For more information & example, see the [configuration table](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
You can learn more about the ways you can customise the Chart's values [here](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/#synopsis).

Replace `<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` with the [token](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general) of the account you want to ship to.

Replace `<<LISTENER-HOST>>` with your account's listener host. You can find your listener in your [manage tokens page](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-tokens/data-shipping?product=logs).

```shell
helm install -n monitoring \
--set secrets.logzioShippingToken='<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>' \
--set secrets.logzioListener='<<LISTENER-HOST>>' \
logzio-fluentd logzio-helm/logzio-fluentd
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Logz.io](https://app.logz.io/).
	
</div>

#### Configuration

This table contains all the parameters in `values.yaml`. If you wish to change the default values, specify each parameter using the `--set key=value` argument to `helm install` in step 2. For example:

```shell
helm install -n monitoring \
  --set terminationGracePeriodSeconds=40 \
  --set daemonset.logzioLogLevel=debug \
  --set-file configmap.extraConfig=/path/to/config.yaml \
  logzio-fluentd logzio-helm/logzio-fluentd
```

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `image` | The logzio-fluentd docker image. | `logzio/logzio-fluentd` |
| `imageTag` | The logzio-fluentd docker image tag. | `1.4.0` |
| `nameOverride` | Overrides the Chart name for resources. | `""` |
| `fullnameOverride` | Overrides the full name of the resources. | `""` |
| `apiVersions.daemonset` | Daemonset API version. | `apps/v1` |
| `apiVersions.serviceAccount` | Service Account API version. | `v1` |
| `apiVersions.clusterRole` | Cluster Role API version. | `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1` |
| `apiVersions.clusterRoleBinding` | Cluster Role Binding API version. | `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1` |
| `apiVersions.configmap` | Configmap API version. | `v1` |
| `apiVersions.secret` | Secret API version. | `v1` |
| `namespace` | Chart's namespace. | `monitoring` |
| `fargateLogRouter.enabled` | Boolen to decide if to configure fargate log router | `false` |
| `env_id` | Add to your logs field `env_id` with identification of the environment you're shipping logs from. | `""` |
| `isRBAC` | Specifies whether the Chart should be compatible to a RBAC cluster. If you're running on a non-RBAC cluster, set to `false`.  | `true` |
| `serviceAccount.name` | Name of the service account. | `""` |
| `daemonset.tolerations` | Set [tolerations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) for all DaemonSet pods. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `daemonset.nodeSelector` | Set [nodeSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) for all DaemonSet pods. | `{}` |
| `daemonset.affinity` | Set [affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) rules for the scheduler to determine where all DaemonSet pods can be placed. |  |
| `daemonset.fluentdSystemdConf` | Controls whether Fluentd system messages will be enabled. | `disable` |
| `daemonset.fluentdPrometheusConf` | Controls the launch of a prometheus plugin that monitors Fluentd. | `false` |
| `daemonset.includeNamespace` | Use if you wish to send logs from specific k8s namespaces, space delimited. Should be in the following format: `kubernetes.var.log.containers.**_<<NAMESPACE-TO-INCLUDE>>_** kubernetes.var.log.containers.**_<<ANOTHER-NAMESPACE>>_**`. | `""` |
| `daemonset.kubernetesVerifySsl` | Enables to validate SSL certificates. | `true` |
| `daemonset.auditLogFormat` | Match Fluentd's format for kube-apiserver audit logs. Set to `audit-json` if your audit logs are in json format. | `audit` |
| `daemonset.containerdRuntime` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Determines whether to use a configuration for a Containerd runtime. Set to `false` if your cluster doesn't use Containerd as CRI. | `true` |
| `daemonset.cri` | Container runtime interface of the cluster. Used to determine which configuration to use when concatenating partial logs. Valid options are: `docker`, `containerd`. | `containerd` |
| `daemonset.logzioBufferType` | Specifies which plugin to use as the backend. | `file` |
| `daemonset.logzioBufferPath` | Path of the buffer. | `/var/log/fluentd-buffers/stackdriver.buffer` |
| `daemonset.logzioOverflowAction` | Controls the behavior when the queue becomes full. | `block` |
| `daemonset.logzioChunkLimitSize` | Maximum size of a chunk allowed. | `2M` |
| `daemonset.logzioQueueLimitLength` | Maximum length of the output queue. | `6` |
| `daemonset.logzioFlushInterval` | Interval, in seconds, to wait before invoking the next buffer flush. | `5s` |
| `daemonset.logzioRetryMaxInterval` | Maximum interval, in seconds, to wait between retries. | `30` |
| `daemonset.logzioRetryForever` | If true, plugin will retry flushing forever | `true` |
| `daemonset.logzioFlushThreadCount` | Number of threads to flush the buffer. | `2` |
| `daemonset.logzioLogLevel` | The log level for this container. | `info` |
| `daemonset.excludeFluentdPath` | Path to fluentd logs file, to exclude them from the logs that Fluent tails. | `/var/log/containers/*fluentd*.log` |
| `daemonset.extraExclude` | A comma-seperated list (no spaces), of more paths to exclude from the Fluentd source that tails containers logs. For example - /path/one.log,/path/two.log | `""` |
| `daemonset.containersPath` | Path for containers logs. | `"/var/log/containers/*.log"` |
| `daemonset.logType` | Set log type for the logs. | `"k8s"` |
| `daemonset.extraEnv` | If needed, more env vars can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.resources` | Allows you to set the resources for Fluentd Daemonset. |  See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `daemonset.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `daemonset.extraVolumes` | If needed, more volumes can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.init.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts to the init container can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.init.containerImage` | Init container image for the fluentd daemonset. | `busybox` |
| `daemonset.priorityClassName` | Set [priorityClassName](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/) for all DaemonSet pods. | `""` |
| `windowsDaemonset.kubernetesVerifySsl` | Enables to validate SSL certificates (windows). | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.auditLogFormat` | Match Fluentd's format for kube-apiserver audit logs. Set to `audit-json` if your audit logs are in json format. (windows) | `audit` |
| `windowsDaemonset.containerdRuntime` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Determines whether to use a configuration for a Containerd runtime. Set to `false` if your cluster doesn't use Containerd as CRI. (windows) | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.cri` | Container runtime interface of the cluster. Used to determine which configuration to use when concatenating partial logs (windows). Valid options are: `docker`, `containerd`. | `containerd` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioBufferType` | Specifies which plugin to use as the backend. | `file` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioBufferPath` | Path of the buffer. (windows) | `/var/log/fluentd-buffers/stackdriver.buffer` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioOverflowAction` | Controls the behavior when the queue becomes full. (windows) | `block` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioChunkLimitSize` | Maximum size of a chunk allowed. (windows) | `2M` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioQueueLimitLength` | Maximum length of the output queue. (windows) | `6` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioFlushInterval` | Interval, in seconds, to wait before invoking the next buffer flush. (windows) | `5s` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioRetryMaxInterval` | Maximum interval, in seconds, to wait between retries. (windows) | `30` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioRetryForever` | If true, plugin will retry flushing forever (windows) | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioFlushThreadCount` | Number of threads to flush the buffer. (windows) | `2` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioLogLevel` | The log level for this container. (windows) | `info` |
| `windowsDaemonset.excludeFluentdPath` | Path to fluentd logs file, to exclude them from the logs that Fluent tails. | `/var/log/containers/*fluentd*.log` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraExclude` | A comma-seperated list (no spaces), of more paths to exclude from the Fluentd source that tails containers logs. For example - /path/one.log,/path/two.log | `""` |
| `windowsDaemonset.containersPath` | Path for containers logs. | `"/var/log/containers/*.log"` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraEnv` | If needed, more env vars can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `windowsDaemonset.resources` | Allows you to set the resources for Fluentd Daemonset. (windows) |  See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `daemonset.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraVolumes` | If needed, more volumes can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `windowsDaemonset.priorityClassName` | Set [priorityClassName](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/) for all DaemonSet pods. (windows) | `""` |
| `clusterRole.rules` | Configurable [cluster role rules](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-and-clusterrole) that Fluentd uses to access Kubernetes resources. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `secrets.logzioShippingToken` | Secret with your [logzio shipping token](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general). | `""` |
| `secrets.logzioListener` | Secret with your logzio listener host. `listener.logz.io`. | `" "` |
| `secrets.customEndpoint` | Secret with your custom endpoint, for example:`http://endpoint:8080`. Overrides `secrets.logzioListener` | `""` |
| `secrets.enabled` | When `true`, the logzio secret will be created and managed by this Chart. If you're managing the logzio secret by yourself, set to `false`. | `true` |
| `secretName` | Name of the secret in case it's placed from an external source. | `logzio-logs-secret` |
| `configMapIncludes` | Initial includes for `fluent.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.extraConfig` | If needed, more Fluentd configuration can be added with this field. | `{}` |
| `configmap.fluent` | Configuration for `fluent.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.kubernetes` | Configuration for `kubernetes.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.system` | Configuration for `system.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.systemd` | Configuration for `systemd.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.kubernetesContainerd` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Configuration for `kubernetes-containerd.conf`. This is the configuration that's being used when `daemonset.containerdRuntime` is set to `true` | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.partialDocker` | Configuration for `partial-docker.conf`. Used to concatenate partial logs that split due to large size, for docker cri. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.partialContainerd` | Configuration for `partial-containerd.conf`. Used to concatenate partial logs that split due to large size, for containerd cri. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.audit` | Configuration for `audit.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.auditJson` | Configuration for `audit-json.conf`. This is the configuration that's being used when `daemonset.auditLogFormat` is set to `audit-json` | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.envId` | Config snippet for adding `env_id` field to logs | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.customSources` | Add sources to the Fluentd configuration | `""` |
| `configmap.customFilters` | Add filters to the Fluentd configuration | `""` |
| `configmap.customFilterAfter` | Add filters to the Fluentd configuration, after default filters | `""` |
| `logLevelFilter` | Add log level filter. Regex of the log level(s) you want to ship. For example, if you want to ship warning and error logs, use `WARNING\|ERROR`. Possible levels are: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `TRACE`. | `""` |

**Note:** If you're adding your own configuration file via `configmap.extraConfig`:
- Add a `--set-file` flag to your `helm install` command, as seen in the [example above](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
- Make sure that the `yaml` file with your configuration is in the following format:

```ini
my-custom-conf-name.conf: |-
	# .....
	# your config
	# .....
my-custom-conf-name2.conf: |-
	# .....
	# your config
	# .....
```

#### Adding a custom log_type field from attribute

To add a `log_type` field with a custom value to each log, you can use the annotation key `log_type` with a custom value. The annotation will be automatically parsed into a `log_type` field with the provided value. e.g:

```yaml
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      log_type: "my_type"
```

Will result with the following log (json):

```json
{
...
,"log_type": "my_type"
...
}
```

## Fluentd images for windows server
By default the fluentd image for windows-server supports windows server 2019.
If needed, the fluentd image can be changed to support windows server 2022 with the following commands:

```yaml
--set windowsImage=logzio/fluentd-windows-2022 \
--set windowsImageTag=0.0.1
```


#### Uninstalling the Chart

The command removes all the k8s components associated with the chart and deletes the release.  

To uninstall the `logzio-fluentd` deployment:

```shell
helm uninstall -n monitoring logzio-fluentd
```

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->
<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="multiline">

{% include /log-shipping/multiline-fluentd-plugin.md %}

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->
</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->

Commit message:

Note on client version Helm

_source/logzio_collections/_log-sources/fluentd-helm.md, after:

---
title: Ship Kubernetes logs with Fluentd over Helm
logo:
  logofile: kubernetes.svg
  orientation: vertical
short-description: Ship Kubernetes logs with Fluentd over Helm
data-source: Kubernetes over Helm with Fluentd
data-for-product-source: Logs
shipping-tags:
  - log-shipper
open-source:
  - title: logzio-helm
    github-repo: logzio-helm
contributors:
  - mirii1994
shipping-tags:
  - agents
  - container
order: 180
---
<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Multiline logs](#multiline)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="overview">
### Logzio-fluentd

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is a tool for managing packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources using Charts.
Logzio-fluentd allows you to ship logs from your Kubernetes cluster to Logz.io, using Fluentd.
Fluentd is flexible enough and has the proper plugins to distribute logs to different third parties such as Logz.io.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
The chart defaults to configuration for Conatinerd CRI. If your cluster uses Docker as CRI, please refer to `daemonset.containerdRuntime` in the [configuration table](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Fluentd will fetch all existing logs, as it is not able to ignore older logs.
{:.info-box.important}
<!-- info-box-end -->

###### Sending logs from nodes with taints

If you want to ship logs from any of the nodes that have a taint, make sure that the taint key values are listed in your in your daemonset/deployment configuration as follows:
  
```yaml
tolerations:
- key: 
  operator: 
  value: 
  effect: 
```
  
To determine if a node uses taints as well as to display the taint keys, run:
  
```
kubectl get nodes -o json | jq ".items[]|{name:.metadata.name, taints:.spec.taints}"
```

You need to use `Helm` client with version `v3.9.0` or above.
#### Deploying the Chart

<div class="tasklist">


##### Create a monitoring namespace

Your DaemonSet will be deployed under the namespace `monitoring`.

```shell
kubectl create namespace monitoring
```

##### Add logzio-fluentd repo to your helm repo list

```shell
helm repo add logzio-helm https://logzio.github.io/logzio-helm
```

##### Deploy

The following command will install the Chart with the default values.
If you wish to change some of the values, add to this command `--set` flag(s) with the parameter(s) you'd like to change. For more information & example, see the [configuration table](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
You can learn more about the ways you can customise the Chart's values [here](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/#synopsis).

Replace `<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` with the [token](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general) of the account you want to ship to.

Replace `<<LISTENER-HOST>>` with your account's listener host. You can find your listener in your [manage tokens page](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-tokens/data-shipping?product=logs).

```shell
helm install -n monitoring \
--set secrets.logzioShippingToken='<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>' \
--set secrets.logzioListener='<<LISTENER-HOST>>' \
logzio-fluentd logzio-helm/logzio-fluentd
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Logz.io](https://app.logz.io/).
	
</div>

#### Configuration

This table contains all the parameters in `values.yaml`. If you wish to change the default values, specify each parameter using the `--set key=value` argument to `helm install` in step 2. For example:

```shell
helm install -n monitoring \
  --set terminationGracePeriodSeconds=40 \
  --set daemonset.logzioLogLevel=debug \
  --set-file configmap.extraConfig=/path/to/config.yaml \
  logzio-fluentd logzio-helm/logzio-fluentd
```

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `image` | The logzio-fluentd docker image. | `logzio/logzio-fluentd` |
| `imageTag` | The logzio-fluentd docker image tag. | `1.4.0` |
| `nameOverride` | Overrides the Chart name for resources. | `""` |
| `fullnameOverride` | Overrides the full name of the resources. | `""` |
| `apiVersions.daemonset` | Daemonset API version. | `apps/v1` |
| `apiVersions.serviceAccount` | Service Account API version. | `v1` |
| `apiVersions.clusterRole` | Cluster Role API version. | `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1` |
| `apiVersions.clusterRoleBinding` | Cluster Role Binding API version. | `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1` |
| `apiVersions.configmap` | Configmap API version. | `v1` |
| `apiVersions.secret` | Secret API version. | `v1` |
| `namespace` | Chart's namespace. | `monitoring` |
| `fargateLogRouter.enabled` | Boolen to decide if to configure fargate log router | `false` |
| `env_id` | Add to your logs field `env_id` with identification of the environment you're shipping logs from. | `""` |
| `isRBAC` | Specifies whether the Chart should be compatible to a RBAC cluster. If you're running on a non-RBAC cluster, set to `false`.  | `true` |
| `serviceAccount.name` | Name of the service account. | `""` |
| `daemonset.tolerations` | Set [tolerations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) for all DaemonSet pods. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `daemonset.nodeSelector` | Set [nodeSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) for all DaemonSet pods. | `{}` |
| `daemonset.affinity` | Set [affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) rules for the scheduler to determine where all DaemonSet pods can be placed. |  |
| `daemonset.fluentdSystemdConf` | Controls whether Fluentd system messages will be enabled. | `disable` |
| `daemonset.fluentdPrometheusConf` | Controls the launch of a prometheus plugin that monitors Fluentd. | `false` |
| `daemonset.includeNamespace` | Use if you wish to send logs from specific k8s namespaces, space delimited. Should be in the following format: `kubernetes.var.log.containers.**_<<NAMESPACE-TO-INCLUDE>>_** kubernetes.var.log.containers.**_<<ANOTHER-NAMESPACE>>_**`. | `""` |
| `daemonset.kubernetesVerifySsl` | Enables to validate SSL certificates. | `true` |
| `daemonset.auditLogFormat` | Match Fluentd's format for kube-apiserver audit logs. Set to `audit-json` if your audit logs are in json format. | `audit` |
| `daemonset.containerdRuntime` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Determines whether to use a configuration for a Containerd runtime. Set to `false` if your cluster doesn't use Containerd as CRI. | `true` |
| `daemonset.cri` | Container runtime interface of the cluster. Used to determine which configuration to use when concatenating partial logs. Valid options are: `docker`, `containerd`. | `containerd` |
| `daemonset.logzioBufferType` | Specifies which plugin to use as the backend. | `file` |
| `daemonset.logzioBufferPath` | Path of the buffer. | `/var/log/fluentd-buffers/stackdriver.buffer` |
| `daemonset.logzioOverflowAction` | Controls the behavior when the queue becomes full. | `block` |
| `daemonset.logzioChunkLimitSize` | Maximum size of a chunk allowed. | `2M` |
| `daemonset.logzioQueueLimitLength` | Maximum length of the output queue. | `6` |
| `daemonset.logzioFlushInterval` | Interval, in seconds, to wait before invoking the next buffer flush. | `5s` |
| `daemonset.logzioRetryMaxInterval` | Maximum interval, in seconds, to wait between retries. | `30` |
| `daemonset.logzioRetryForever` | If true, plugin will retry flushing forever | `true` |
| `daemonset.logzioFlushThreadCount` | Number of threads to flush the buffer. | `2` |
| `daemonset.logzioLogLevel` | The log level for this container. | `info` |
| `daemonset.excludeFluentdPath` | Path to fluentd logs file, to exclude them from the logs that Fluent tails. | `/var/log/containers/*fluentd*.log` |
| `daemonset.extraExclude` | A comma-seperated list (no spaces), of more paths to exclude from the Fluentd source that tails containers logs. For example - /path/one.log,/path/two.log | `""` |
| `daemonset.containersPath` | Path for containers logs. | `"/var/log/containers/*.log"` |
| `daemonset.logType` | Set log type for the logs. | `"k8s"` |
| `daemonset.extraEnv` | If needed, more env vars can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.resources` | Allows you to set the resources for Fluentd Daemonset. |  See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `daemonset.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `daemonset.extraVolumes` | If needed, more volumes can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.init.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts to the init container can be added with this field. | `[]` |
| `daemonset.init.containerImage` | Init container image for the fluentd daemonset. | `busybox` |
| `daemonset.priorityClassName` | Set [priorityClassName](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/) for all DaemonSet pods. | `""` |
| `windowsDaemonset.kubernetesVerifySsl` | Enables to validate SSL certificates (windows). | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.auditLogFormat` | Match Fluentd's format for kube-apiserver audit logs. Set to `audit-json` if your audit logs are in json format. (windows) | `audit` |
| `windowsDaemonset.containerdRuntime` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Determines whether to use a configuration for a Containerd runtime. Set to `false` if your cluster doesn't use Containerd as CRI. (windows) | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.cri` | Container runtime interface of the cluster. Used to determine which configuration to use when concatenating partial logs (windows). Valid options are: `docker`, `containerd`. | `containerd` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioBufferType` | Specifies which plugin to use as the backend. | `file` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioBufferPath` | Path of the buffer. (windows) | `/var/log/fluentd-buffers/stackdriver.buffer` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioOverflowAction` | Controls the behavior when the queue becomes full. (windows) | `block` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioChunkLimitSize` | Maximum size of a chunk allowed. (windows) | `2M` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioQueueLimitLength` | Maximum length of the output queue. (windows) | `6` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioFlushInterval` | Interval, in seconds, to wait before invoking the next buffer flush. (windows) | `5s` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioRetryMaxInterval` | Maximum interval, in seconds, to wait between retries. (windows) | `30` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioRetryForever` | If true, plugin will retry flushing forever (windows) | `true` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioFlushThreadCount` | Number of threads to flush the buffer. (windows) | `2` |
| `windowsDaemonset.logzioLogLevel` | The log level for this container. (windows) | `info` |
| `windowsDaemonset.excludeFluentdPath` | Path to fluentd logs file, to exclude them from the logs that Fluent tails. | `/var/log/containers/*fluentd*.log` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraExclude` | A comma-seperated list (no spaces), of more paths to exclude from the Fluentd source that tails containers logs. For example - /path/one.log,/path/two.log | `""` |
| `windowsDaemonset.containersPath` | Path for containers logs. | `"/var/log/containers/*.log"` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraEnv` | If needed, more env vars can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `windowsDaemonset.resources` | Allows you to set the resources for Fluentd Daemonset. (windows) |  See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraVolumeMounts` | If needed, more volume mounts can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `daemonset.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `windowsDaemonset.extraVolumes` | If needed, more volumes can be added with this field. (windows) | `[]` |
| `windowsDaemonset.priorityClassName` | Set [priorityClassName](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/) for all DaemonSet pods. (windows) | `""` |
| `clusterRole.rules` | Configurable [cluster role rules](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-and-clusterrole) that Fluentd uses to access Kubernetes resources. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `secrets.logzioShippingToken` | Secret with your [logzio shipping token](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general). | `""` |
| `secrets.logzioListener` | Secret with your logzio listener host. `listener.logz.io`. | `" "` |
| `secrets.customEndpoint` | Secret with your custom endpoint, for example:`http://endpoint:8080`. Overrides `secrets.logzioListener` | `""` |
| `secrets.enabled` | When `true`, the logzio secret will be created and managed by this Chart. If you're managing the logzio secret by yourself, set to `false`. | `true` |
| `secretName` | Name of the secret in case it's placed from an external source. | `logzio-logs-secret` |
| `configMapIncludes` | Initial includes for `fluent.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.extraConfig` | If needed, more Fluentd configuration can be added with this field. | `{}` |
| `configmap.fluent` | Configuration for `fluent.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.kubernetes` | Configuration for `kubernetes.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.system` | Configuration for `system.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.systemd` | Configuration for `systemd.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.kubernetesContainerd` | **Deprecated from chart version 0.1.0.** Configuration for `kubernetes-containerd.conf`. This is the configuration that's being used when `daemonset.containerdRuntime` is set to `true` | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.partialDocker` | Configuration for `partial-docker.conf`. Used to concatenate partial logs that split due to large size, for docker cri. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.partialContainerd` | Configuration for `partial-containerd.conf`. Used to concatenate partial logs that split due to large size, for containerd cri. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.audit` | Configuration for `audit.conf`. | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.auditJson` | Configuration for `audit-json.conf`. This is the configuration that's being used when `daemonset.auditLogFormat` is set to `audit-json` | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.envId` | Config snippet for adding `env_id` field to logs | See [values.yaml](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/blob/master/charts/fluentd/values.yaml). |
| `configmap.customSources` | Add sources to the Fluentd configuration | `""` |
| `configmap.customFilters` | Add filters to the Fluentd configuration | `""` |
| `configmap.customFilterAfter` | Add filters to the Fluentd configuration, after default filters | `""` |
| `logLevelFilter` | Add log level filter. Regex of the log level(s) you want to ship. For example, if you want to ship warning and error logs, use `WARNING\|ERROR`. Possible levels are: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `TRACE`. | `""` |

**Note:** If you're adding your own configuration file via `configmap.extraConfig`:
- Add a `--set-file` flag to your `helm install` command, as seen in the [example above](https://github.com/logzio/logzio-helm/tree/master/charts/fluentd#configuration).
- Make sure that the `yaml` file with your configuration is in the following format:

```ini
my-custom-conf-name.conf: |-
	# .....
	# your config
	# .....
my-custom-conf-name2.conf: |-
	# .....
	# your config
	# .....
```

#### Adding a custom log_type field from attribute

To add a `log_type` field with a custom value to each log, you can use the annotation key `log_type` with a custom value. The annotation will be automatically parsed into a `log_type` field with the provided value. e.g:

```yaml
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      log_type: "my_type"
```

Will result with the following log (json):

```json
{
...
,"log_type": "my_type"
...
}
```

## Fluentd images for windows server
By default the fluentd image for windows-server supports windows server 2019.
If needed, the fluentd image can be changed to support windows server 2022 with the following commands:

```yaml
--set windowsImage=logzio/fluentd-windows-2022 \
--set windowsImageTag=0.0.1
```


#### Uninstalling the Chart

The command removes all the k8s components associated with the chart and deletes the release.  

To uninstall the `logzio-fluentd` deployment:

```shell
helm uninstall -n monitoring logzio-fluentd
```

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->
<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="multiline">

{% include /log-shipping/multiline-fluentd-plugin.md %}

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->
</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->
