_source/logzio_collections/_log-sources/trivy.md, before:

---
title: Ship reports from Trivy Operator
logo:
  logofile: trivy-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Trivy Operator
description: Ship reports from Trivy Operator
data-for-product-source: Logs
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - container
order: 1380
---
[Trivy](https://www.aquasec.com/products/trivy/) is an open-source vulnerability scanner for containers that can detect vulnerabilities in OS packages and application dependencies. The [Trivy Operator](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-operator) is a Kubernetes operator that automates the process of scanning container images for vulnerabilities using Trivy.

This integration utilizes the logzio-trivy Helm Chart to deploy:

* Trivy-Operator Helm Chart that scans the cluster and creates Trivy reports.
* A deployment that looks for the Trivy reports in the cluster, processes them, and sends them to Logz.io

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
At present, only vulnerability reports are being collected.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
This integration is presently in its beta phase and may be subject to modifications.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


**Before you begin, you'll need**: 

* an active account with Logz.io
* Kubernetes cluster to send reports from

<div class="tasklist">


##### Add `logzio-helm` repo
  
```shell
helm repo add logzio-helm https://logzio.github.io/logzio-helm
helm repo update
```

###### Run the Helm deployment code

```shell
helm install -n monitoring --create-namespace \
--set env_id="<<ENV-ID>>" \
--set secrets.logzioShippingToken="<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>" \
--set secrets.logzioListener="<<LISTENER-HOST>>" \
logzio-trivy logzio-helm/logzio-trivy
```


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
With this command, we instruct Helm to create the monitoring namespace if it does not already exist.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| `<<ENV-ID>>` | A unique name assigned to your environment's identifier, to differentiate telemetry data across various environments.
| `<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` | {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %} |
| `<<LISTENER-HOST>>` | {% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} |


##### Check Logz.io for your reports

Give your reports some time to get from your system to ours,
and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

</div>

####  Customizing Helm chart parameters


##### Configure customization options

You can use the following options to update the Helm chart parameters:

* Specify parameters using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`

* Edit the `values.yaml`

* Overide default values with your own `my_values.yaml` and apply it in the `helm install` command.

###### Custom parameters

| Parameter	| Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `trivy-operator.trivy.ignoreUnfixed` | Determines whether to display only fixed vulnerabilities in the reports generated by Trivy. | `false` |
| `nameOverride` | Overrides the Chart name for resources. | `""` |
| `fullnameOverride` | Overrides the full name of the resources. | `""` |
| `schedule` | Time for daily scanning for security reports and sending them to Logz.io, in the "HH:MM" format. | `"07:00"` |
| `restartPolicy` | Container restart policy | `OnFailure` |
| `image` | Container image | `logzio/trivy-to-logzio` |
| `imageTag` | Container image tag | `0.1.0` |
| `env_id` | A unique name assigned to your environment's identifier, to differentiate telemetry data across various environments. | `""` |
| `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `serviceAccount.create` | Specifies whether to create a service account for the cron job. | `true` |
| `serviceAccount.name` | Name of the service account. | `""` |
| `secrets.enabled` | Specifies wheter to create a secret for the deployment | `true` |
| `secrets.name` | Secret name | `"logzio-logs-secret-trivy"` |
| `secrets.logzioShippingToken` | Your logz.io log shipping token | `""` |
| `secrets.logzioListener` | Your logz.io listener host | `""` (defaults to us region) |
| `scriptLogLevel` | Log level of the script that sends security risk to Logz.io. Can be one of: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`. | `INFO` |


#### Uninstalling the Chart

The Uninstall command is used to remove all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and to delete the release.  

To uninstall the `logzio-trivy` deployment, use the following command:

```shell
helm uninstall logzio-trivy
```

Commit message:

Prefix Trivy (#2307)
Co-authored-by: “nico-shishkin” <“nicoshishkinatlogz@outlook.com”>

_source/logzio_collections/_log-sources/trivy.md, after:

---
title: Ship reports from Trivy Operator
logo:
  logofile: trivy-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Trivy Operator
description: Ship reports from Trivy Operator
data-for-product-source: Logs
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - container
order: 1380
---
[Trivy](https://www.aquasec.com/products/trivy/) is an open-source vulnerability scanner for containers that can detect vulnerabilities in OS packages and application dependencies. The [Trivy Operator](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-operator) is a Kubernetes operator that automates the process of scanning container images for vulnerabilities using Trivy.

This integration utilizes the logzio-trivy Helm Chart to deploy:

* Trivy-Operator Helm Chart that scans the cluster and creates Trivy reports.
* A deployment that looks for the Trivy reports in the cluster, processes them, and sends them to Logz.io

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
At present, only vulnerability reports are being collected.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
This integration is presently in its beta phase and may be subject to modifications.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


**Before you begin, you'll need**: 

* an active account with Logz.io
* Kubernetes cluster to send reports from

<div class="tasklist">


##### Add `logzio-helm` repo
  
```shell
helm repo add logzio-helm https://logzio.github.io/logzio-helm
helm repo update
```

###### Run the Helm deployment code

```shell
helm install -n monitoring --create-namespace \
--set env_id="<<ENV-ID>>" \
--set secrets.logzioShippingToken="<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>" \
--set secrets.logzioListener="<<LISTENER-HOST>>" \
logzio-trivy logzio-helm/logzio-trivy
```


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
With this command, we instruct Helm to create the monitoring namespace if it does not already exist.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| `<<ENV-ID>>` | A unique name assigned to your environment's identifier, to differentiate telemetry data across various environments.
| `<<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` | {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %} |
| `<<LISTENER-HOST>>` | Replace `<<LISTENER-HOST>>` with the host for your region, without the `http/https` prefix. For example, `listener.logz.io` if your account is hosted on AWS US East, or `listener-nl.logz.io` if hosted on Azure West Europe.  |


##### Check Logz.io for your reports

Give your reports some time to get from your system to ours,
and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

</div>

####  Customizing Helm chart parameters


##### Configure customization options

You can use the following options to update the Helm chart parameters:

* Specify parameters using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`

* Edit the `values.yaml`

* Overide default values with your own `my_values.yaml` and apply it in the `helm install` command.

###### Custom parameters

| Parameter	| Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `trivy-operator.trivy.ignoreUnfixed` | Determines whether to display only fixed vulnerabilities in the reports generated by Trivy. | `false` |
| `nameOverride` | Overrides the Chart name for resources. | `""` |
| `fullnameOverride` | Overrides the full name of the resources. | `""` |
| `schedule` | Time for daily scanning for security reports and sending them to Logz.io, in the "HH:MM" format. | `"07:00"` |
| `restartPolicy` | Container restart policy | `OnFailure` |
| `image` | Container image | `logzio/trivy-to-logzio` |
| `imageTag` | Container image tag | `0.1.0` |
| `env_id` | A unique name assigned to your environment's identifier, to differentiate telemetry data across various environments. | `""` |
| `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | Termination period (in seconds) to wait before killing Fluentd pod process on pod shutdown. | `30` |
| `serviceAccount.create` | Specifies whether to create a service account for the cron job. | `true` |
| `serviceAccount.name` | Name of the service account. | `""` |
| `secrets.enabled` | Specifies wheter to create a secret for the deployment | `true` |
| `secrets.name` | Secret name | `"logzio-logs-secret-trivy"` |
| `secrets.logzioShippingToken` | Your logz.io log shipping token | `""` |
| `secrets.logzioListener` | Your logz.io listener host | `""` (defaults to us region) |
| `scriptLogLevel` | Log level of the script that sends security risk to Logz.io. Can be one of: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`. | `INFO` |


#### Uninstalling the Chart

The Uninstall command is used to remove all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and to delete the release.  

To uninstall the `logzio-trivy` deployment, use the following command:

```shell
helm uninstall logzio-trivy
```
