_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/aws-elasticache-redis.md, before:

---
title: Ship Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics
logo:
  logofile: aws-redis-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Amazon ElastiCache for Redis
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker-metricbeat"]
open-source:
  - title: CloudWatch metrics for Prometheus
    github-repo: cloudwatch-metrics
contributors:
  - yotamloe
  - imnotashrimp
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:
  - aws
  - prebuilt-dashboards
order: 380
---

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
For a much easier and more efficient way to collect and send metrics, consider using the [Logz.io telemetry collector](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/send-your-data/agent/new)).
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->



Deploy this integration to send your Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics to Logz.io.

This integration creates a Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream that links to your Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics stream and then sends the metrics to your Logz.io account. It also creates a Lambda function that adds AWS namespaces to the metric stream, and a Lambda function that collects and ships the resources' tags.

#### Setup

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* An active account with Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure AWS to forward metrics to Logz.io

To deploy this project, click the button that matches the region you wish to deploy your Stack to:

| Region           | Deployment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `us-east-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-east-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-west-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-west-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-west-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-central-1`   | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-central-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)     | 
| `eu-north-1`     | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-north-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)         | 
| `eu-west-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-west-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-west-3`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-3#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-3.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `sa-east-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=sa-east-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-sa-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `ap-northeast-1` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-northeast-2` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-northeast-3` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-3#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-3.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-south-1`     | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-south-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-south-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)         | 
| `ap-southeast-1` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-southeast-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-southeast-2` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-southeast-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ca-central-1`   | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ca-central-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ca-central-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)     | 

##### Specify stack details

Specify the stack details as per the table below, check the checkboxes and select **Create stack**.

| Parameter                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                          | Required/Default |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `logzioListener`                           | The Logz.io listener URL for your region. (For more details, see the [regions page](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html). For example - `https://listener.logz.io:8053`     | **Required**     |
| `logzioToken`                              | Your Logz.io metrics shipping token.                                                                                                                                                                 | **Required**     |
| `awsNamespaces`                            | Comma-separated list of the AWS namespaces you want to monitor. See [this list](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html) of namespaces. If you want to automatically add all namespaces, use value `all-namespaces`. | **Required**     |
| `logzioDestination`                        | Your Logz.io destination URL.                                                                                                                                                                        | **Required**     |
| `httpEndpointDestinationIntervalInSeconds` | The length of time, in seconds, that Kinesis Data Firehose buffers incoming data before delivering it to the destination.                                                                            | `60`             |
| `httpEndpointDestinationSizeInMBs`         | The size of the buffer, in MBs, that Kinesis Data Firehose uses for incoming data before delivering it to the destination.                                                                           | `5`              |



##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

Give your data some time to get from your system to ours, then log in to your Logz.io Metrics account, and open [the Logz.io Metrics tab](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/metrics/).

Commit message:

adding meta title and image

_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/aws-elasticache-redis.md, after:

---
title: Ship Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: aws-redis-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Amazon ElastiCache for Redis
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker-metricbeat"]
open-source:
  - title: CloudWatch metrics for Prometheus
    github-repo: cloudwatch-metrics
contributors:
  - yotamloe
  - imnotashrimp
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:
  - aws
  - prebuilt-dashboards
order: 380
---

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
For a much easier and more efficient way to collect and send metrics, consider using the [Logz.io telemetry collector](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/send-your-data/agent/new)).
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->



Deploy this integration to send your Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics to Logz.io.

This integration creates a Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream that links to your Amazon ElastiCache for Redis metrics stream and then sends the metrics to your Logz.io account. It also creates a Lambda function that adds AWS namespaces to the metric stream, and a Lambda function that collects and ships the resources' tags.

#### Setup

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* An active account with Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure AWS to forward metrics to Logz.io

To deploy this project, click the button that matches the region you wish to deploy your Stack to:

| Region           | Deployment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `us-east-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-east-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-west-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-west-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `us-west-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-central-1`   | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-central-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)     | 
| `eu-north-1`     | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-north-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)         | 
| `eu-west-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-west-2`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `eu-west-3`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-3#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-eu-west-3.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `sa-east-1`      | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=sa-east-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-sa-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)           | 
| `ap-northeast-1` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-northeast-2` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-northeast-3` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-northeast-3#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-northeast-3.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-south-1`     | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-south-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-south-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)         | 
| `ap-southeast-1` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-southeast-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ap-southeast-2` | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-2#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ap-southeast-2.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053) | 
| `ca-central-1`   | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ca-central-1#/stacks/create/review?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-ca-central-1.s3.amazonaws.com/metric-stream-helpers/aws/1.2.4/sam-template.yaml&stackName=logzio-metric-stream&param_logzioToken=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>&param_logzioListener=https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053)     | 

##### Specify stack details

Specify the stack details as per the table below, check the checkboxes and select **Create stack**.

| Parameter                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                          | Required/Default |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `logzioListener`                           | The Logz.io listener URL for your region. (For more details, see the [regions page](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html). For example - `https://listener.logz.io:8053`     | **Required**     |
| `logzioToken`                              | Your Logz.io metrics shipping token.                                                                                                                                                                 | **Required**     |
| `awsNamespaces`                            | Comma-separated list of the AWS namespaces you want to monitor. See [this list](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html) of namespaces. If you want to automatically add all namespaces, use value `all-namespaces`. | **Required**     |
| `logzioDestination`                        | Your Logz.io destination URL.                                                                                                                                                                        | **Required**     |
| `httpEndpointDestinationIntervalInSeconds` | The length of time, in seconds, that Kinesis Data Firehose buffers incoming data before delivering it to the destination.                                                                            | `60`             |
| `httpEndpointDestinationSizeInMBs`         | The size of the buffer, in MBs, that Kinesis Data Firehose uses for incoming data before delivering it to the destination.                                                                           | `5`              |



##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

Give your data some time to get from your system to ours, then log in to your Logz.io Metrics account, and open [the Logz.io Metrics tab](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/metrics/).
