_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/consul.md, before:

---
title: Ship Hashicorp Consul metrics with OpenTelemetry
logo:
  logofile: consul-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Hashicorp Consul
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
order: 800
---


This project lets you configure the OpenTelemetry collector to send your Prometheus-format metrics from Hashicorp Consul to Logz.io.


#### Configuring OpenTelemetry to send your metrics data to Logz.io

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Consul installed on your host
* Golang

<div class="tasklist">

##### Update Consul configuration

1. Navigate to the Consul server and create a new file called `prometheus.json` under the Consul config library at `/etc/consul.d.` 

2. Add the following telemetry stanza to the `prometheus.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "telemetry": {
       "disable_hostname": true,
       "prometheus_retention_time": "72h"
   
     }
   }
   ```

##### Check the Consul server’s metrics format

Check that the Consul server’s metrics are in Prometheus format at this endpoint:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/agent/metrics?format=prometheus
```


##### Download OpenTelemetry collector
  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
If you already have OpenTelemetry, proceed to the next step.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

Create a dedicated directory on your host and download the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases/tag/v0.60.0) that is relevant to the operating system of your host.

After downloading the collector, create a configuration file `config.yaml`.

##### Configure the receivers
  
Open the configuration file and make sure that it states the receivers required for your source:

```yaml
receivers:
  prometheus:
    config:
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: 'consul-metrics'
          scrape_interval: 15s
          metrics_path: "/v1/agent/metrics"
          static_configs:
            - targets: ['localhost:8500']
  hostmetrics:
    collection_interval: 1m
    scrapers:
      cpu: ##All execpt Mac
      disk: ##All execpt Mac
      load:
      filesystem:
      memory:
      network:
      process: ##Linux & Windows
```

##### Configure the processors


In the same configuration file, add the following to the `processors` section:

```yaml
processors:
  resourcedetection/system:
    detectors: ["system"]
    system:
      hostname_sources: ["os"]
```


##### Configure the exporters

In the same configuration file, add the following to the `exporters` section:
  
```yaml  
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
```
  
{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Configure the service pipeline
  
In the `service` section of the configuration file, add the following configuration
  
```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [prometheus,hostmetrics]
      processors: [resourcedetection/system]
      exporters:
        - prometheusremotewrite
  telemetry:
    logs:
      level: "debug"
```



##### Start the collector

Run the following command:

```shell
<path/to>/otelcol-contrib --config ./config.yaml
```

* Replace `<path/to>` with the path to the directory where you downloaded the collector. If the name of your configuration file is different to `config`, adjust name in the command accordingly.

##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

{% include metric-shipping/custom-dashboard.html %} Install the pre-built dashboard to enhance the observability of your metrics.

<!-- logzio-inject:install:grafana:dashboards ids=["4E7r0H6dqvzzCDsbhO4Yi4", "4iO9XKgTZZhzy2tU9Z84Pj", "7pbQAcavNuZXhT3ab9DxIs"] --> 

{% include metric-shipping/generic-dashboard.html %} 


</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/consul.md, after:

---
title: Ship Hashicorp Consul metrics with OpenTelemetry
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship Hashicorp Consul metrics with OpenTelemetry to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: consul-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Hashicorp Consul
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
order: 800
---


This project lets you configure the OpenTelemetry collector to send your Prometheus-format metrics from Hashicorp Consul to Logz.io.


#### Configuring OpenTelemetry to send your metrics data to Logz.io

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Consul installed on your host
* Golang

<div class="tasklist">

##### Update Consul configuration

1. Navigate to the Consul server and create a new file called `prometheus.json` under the Consul config library at `/etc/consul.d.` 

2. Add the following telemetry stanza to the `prometheus.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "telemetry": {
       "disable_hostname": true,
       "prometheus_retention_time": "72h"
   
     }
   }
   ```

##### Check the Consul server’s metrics format

Check that the Consul server’s metrics are in Prometheus format at this endpoint:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/agent/metrics?format=prometheus
```


##### Download OpenTelemetry collector
  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
If you already have OpenTelemetry, proceed to the next step.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

Create a dedicated directory on your host and download the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases/tag/v0.60.0) that is relevant to the operating system of your host.

After downloading the collector, create a configuration file `config.yaml`.

##### Configure the receivers
  
Open the configuration file and make sure that it states the receivers required for your source:

```yaml
receivers:
  prometheus:
    config:
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: 'consul-metrics'
          scrape_interval: 15s
          metrics_path: "/v1/agent/metrics"
          static_configs:
            - targets: ['localhost:8500']
  hostmetrics:
    collection_interval: 1m
    scrapers:
      cpu: ##All execpt Mac
      disk: ##All execpt Mac
      load:
      filesystem:
      memory:
      network:
      process: ##Linux & Windows
```

##### Configure the processors


In the same configuration file, add the following to the `processors` section:

```yaml
processors:
  resourcedetection/system:
    detectors: ["system"]
    system:
      hostname_sources: ["os"]
```


##### Configure the exporters

In the same configuration file, add the following to the `exporters` section:
  
```yaml  
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
```
  
{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Configure the service pipeline
  
In the `service` section of the configuration file, add the following configuration
  
```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [prometheus,hostmetrics]
      processors: [resourcedetection/system]
      exporters:
        - prometheusremotewrite
  telemetry:
    logs:
      level: "debug"
```



##### Start the collector

Run the following command:

```shell
<path/to>/otelcol-contrib --config ./config.yaml
```

* Replace `<path/to>` with the path to the directory where you downloaded the collector. If the name of your configuration file is different to `config`, adjust name in the command accordingly.

##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

{% include metric-shipping/custom-dashboard.html %} Install the pre-built dashboard to enhance the observability of your metrics.

<!-- logzio-inject:install:grafana:dashboards ids=["4E7r0H6dqvzzCDsbhO4Yi4", "4iO9XKgTZZhzy2tU9Z84Pj", "7pbQAcavNuZXhT3ab9DxIs"] --> 

{% include metric-shipping/generic-dashboard.html %} 


</div>
