_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-otel-output.md, before:

---
title: Ship Prometheus metrics with OpenTelemetry
logo:
  logofile: opentelemetry-icon-color.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: OTEL for Prometheus metrics
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
order: 800
---


This project lets you configure the OpenTelemetry collector to send your collected Prometheus-format metrics to Logz.io.


#### Configuring OpenTelemetry to send your metrics data to Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Download OpenTelemetry collector
  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
If you already have OpenTelemetry, proceed to the next step.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

Create a dedicated directory on your host and download the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases/tag/v0.60.0) that is relevant to the operating system of your host.

After downloading the collector, create a configuration file `config.yaml`.

##### Configure the receivers
  
Open the configuration file and make sure that it states the receivers required for your source.

##### Configure the exporters

In the same configuration file, add the following to the `exporters` section:
  
```yaml  
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
```
  
{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Configure the service pipeline
  
In the `service` section of the configuration file, add the following configuration
  
```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [<<YOUR-RECEIVER>>]
      exporters: [prometheusremotewrite]
```
* Replace `<<YOUR_RECEIVER>>` with the name of your receiver.



##### Start the collector

Run the following command:

```shell
<path/to>/otelcol-contrib --config ./config.yaml
```

* Replace `<path/to>` with the path to the directory where you downloaded the collector. If the name of your configuration file is different to `config`, adjust name in the command accordingly.

##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

Give your data some time to get from your system to ours, then log in to your Logz.io Metrics account, and open [the Logz.io Metrics tab](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/metrics/).


</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-otel-output.md, after:

---
title: Ship Prometheus metrics with OpenTelemetry
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship Prometheus metrics with OpenTelemetry to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: opentelemetry-icon-color.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: OTEL for Prometheus metrics
data-for-product-source: Metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
order: 800
---


This project lets you configure the OpenTelemetry collector to send your collected Prometheus-format metrics to Logz.io.


#### Configuring OpenTelemetry to send your metrics data to Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Download OpenTelemetry collector
  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
If you already have OpenTelemetry, proceed to the next step.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

Create a dedicated directory on your host and download the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases/tag/v0.60.0) that is relevant to the operating system of your host.

After downloading the collector, create a configuration file `config.yaml`.

##### Configure the receivers
  
Open the configuration file and make sure that it states the receivers required for your source.

##### Configure the exporters

In the same configuration file, add the following to the `exporters` section:
  
```yaml  
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
```
  
{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Configure the service pipeline
  
In the `service` section of the configuration file, add the following configuration
  
```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [<<YOUR-RECEIVER>>]
      exporters: [prometheusremotewrite]
```
* Replace `<<YOUR_RECEIVER>>` with the name of your receiver.



##### Start the collector

Run the following command:

```shell
<path/to>/otelcol-contrib --config ./config.yaml
```

* Replace `<path/to>` with the path to the directory where you downloaded the collector. If the name of your configuration file is different to `config`, adjust name in the command accordingly.

##### Check Logz.io for your metrics

Give your data some time to get from your system to ours, then log in to your Logz.io Metrics account, and open [the Logz.io Metrics tab](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/metrics/).


</div>
