_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-cloudwatch-exporter.md, before:

---
title: Ship Prometheus metrics from AWS CloudWatch with the OpenTelemetry Collector
logo:
  logofile: aws-cloudwatch.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Amazon CloudWatch exporter
data-for-product-source: Metrics
open-source:
  - title: CloudWatch metrics for Prometheus
    github-repo: logzio-aws-metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - yotamloe
  - yberlinger
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - aws
order: 400
---

<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Default configuration](#variables)
* [Custom config](#config)
* [Custom cloudwatch exporter](#cloudwatch)
* [ECS deployment](#ecs)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="overview">

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Try the [CloudWatch Stream](./aws-services) for a better and easier experience.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

With this integration, you can collect Cloudwatch metrics and forward them to Logz.io using the OpenTelemetry collector. We simplify the data export and collection of your metrics. You tell us the desired namespaces and regions that you want to send your data from and we fetch the most relevant metrics to display in the Logz.io pre-built infrastructure monitoring dashboards.

### Important notes

* Extra calls and charges on AWS API requests may be generated by this project.

* You can track the number of AWS API requests with the `cloudwatch_requests_total` metric, which provides labels with the API name and namespace specification. For example, `cloudwatch_requests_total{action="getMetricStatistics",namespace="AWS/EC2",} 876.0`.

* For more information about the prom/cloudwatch-exporter cost, refer to the relevant [Prometheus documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#cost) and to the [AWS cloudwatch API pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/).

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="variables">

This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with environment variables to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account.  We recommend using this configuration as default.
  
<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".

##### Run the container with environment variables
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-e TOKEN=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> \
-e LOGZIO_REGION=<<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
-e AWS_REGION=<<AWS_REGION>> \
-e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
-e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
-e AWS_NAMESPACES=<<AWS_NAMESPACES>> \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_REGION (Required) | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LOGZIO_REGION (Required)| Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| `<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` (Required)| Token for shipping metrics to your Logz.io account. Find it under Settings > Manage accounts. [_How do I look up my Metrics account token?_](/user-guide/accounts/finding-your-metrics-account-token/) |
| AWS_NAMESPACES (Required) | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html).   **Note:** This Environment variable is required unless you define the `CUSTOM_CONFIG` Environment variable |
| SCRAPE_INTERVAL | The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = `300`.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60.|
| P8S_LOGZIO_NAME | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io came from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`.  |
| CUSTOM_CONFIG | Mount your cloudwatch exporter configuration file `-v pathToConfig/config.yml:config_files/cloudwatch.yml` and set to `true` if you want to use custom configuration for cloudwatch exporter, Default = `false` |
| CUSTOM_LISTENER | Set a custom URL to ship metrics to (for example, http://localhost:9200). This overrides the `LOGZIO_REGION` Environment variable. |
| SCRAPE_TIMEOUT | The time to wait before throttling a scrape request to cloudwatch exporter, Default = `120`|
| REMOTE_TIMEOUT | the time to wait before throttling remote write post request to logz.io, Default = `120`|
| LOG_LEVEL | Opentelemetry log level, Default = `debug` |
| LOGZIO_LOG_LEVEL | `builder.py` Python script log level. Default = `info` |
| AWS_ROLE_ARN | Your IAM role to assume. |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID | Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Your IAM user's secret key. |
| SET_TIMESTAMP | Boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp. Default = `false` |
| PERIOD_SECONDS | period to request the metric for. Only the most recent data point is used. Default = `300` |
| RANGE_SECONDS | how far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours. Default = `300` |
| DELAY_SECONDS | The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged. Default = `300` |

##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
  
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
</div>
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="config">
  
This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with a configuration file to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account. 

<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".
  

##### Run with configuration file
  
Create `config.yml` file:
  
```yaml
otel:
  # your logz.io region
  logzio_region: "us"
  # custom listener address
  custom_listener: ""
  # environment tag that will be attached to all samples
  p8s_logzio_name: "cloudwatch-metrics"
  # your logz.io metrics token
  token: "<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>"
  # the time to wait between scrape requests
  scrape_interval: 300
  # the time to wait before throttling remote write post request to logz.io
  remote_timeout: 120
  # the time to wait before throttling a scrape request to cloudwatch exporter
  scrape_timeout: 120
  # opentelemetry log level
  log_level: "debug"
  # python script log level
  logzio_log_level: "info"
  # aws credentials
  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ""
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ""
cloudwatch:
  # set to true if you are loading a custom configuration file for cloudwatch exporter
  custom_config: "false"
  # your cloudwatch aws region
  region: "us-east-1"
  # role arn to assume
  role_arn: ""
  # list of aws cloudwatch namespaces to monitor
  aws_namespaces: []
  # The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged
  delay_seconds: 300
  # how far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours
  range_seconds: 300
  # period to request the metric for. Only the most recent data point is used
  period_seconds: 300
  # boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp
  set_timestamp: "false"
```

{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Mount the configuration file to your container
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:/config_files/config.yml \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
  
##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
  
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
</div>
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="cloudwatch">

This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with both environment variables and a configuration file to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account. Please note that the envorinment variables will always overwrite variables specified in the configuration file in case the variables overlap.

  
<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".

  
##### Run with custom Cloudwatch exporter configuration
  
Create `cloudwatch.yml` file (for details refer to [prom/cloudwatch_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#configuration) project),
and mount the configuration file to your container and set `CUSTOM_CONFIG` variable to `true`:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-e TOKEN=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> \
-e LOGZIO_REGION=<<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
-e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
-e CUSTOM_CONFIG=true \
-e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
-v <<path_to_cloudwatch_config_file>>:/config_files/cloudwatch.yml \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```

{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}
  
##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
  
</div>
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="ecs">

This integration deploys the `logzio/cloudwatch-metrics` container directly to ECS using a dedicated Cloudformation stack. It deploys a new ECS cluster, ECS service and task definition.
  
<div class="tasklist">
  
##### Auto-deploy the Container
  
👇 To begin, click the start button corresponding to your region to start the automated deployment in your environment.

  
| Region | Deployment link |
|---|---|
| us-east-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-east-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-west-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-west-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-central-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-west-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-west-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-east-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-east-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-southeast-3 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-3#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-south-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-south-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |

##### Specify the template
  
Keep the defaults and click **Next**.

##### Specify the stack details
  
![Specify stack details](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/ecs/stack_details_ecs.png)

Specify the stack details as per the table below and select **Next**.
  
| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| AwsRegion  | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LogzioRegion | Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| Token | Your Logz.io metrics shipping token:`<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` |
| AwsNamespaces  | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html). |
| ScrapeInterval | The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = `300`.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60. |
| P8sLogzioName | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io come from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`. |
| ScrapeTimeOut | Time to wait before throttling a scrape request to the Cloudwatch exporter. Default = `120`|
| RemoteTimeOut | Time to wait before throttling remote write post request to Logz.io. Default = `120`|
| AwsAccesskeyId | Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AwsSecretAccesskey | Your IAM user's secret key. |
| SetTimestamp | Boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp. Default = `false` |
| PeriodSeconds | Period to request metrics for. Only the most recent data point is used. Default = `300` |
| RangeSeconds | How far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours. Default = `300` |
| DelaySeconds | The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged. Default = `300` |
| VPC |  The VPC to deploy the ECS resources. |
| ServiceName | Select name for the new ECS service. |
| Subnet | Subnet to deploy the ECS resources. |
  
##### Configure the stack options

Keep the defaults and click **Next**.

##### Review the deployment

Confirm that you acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources and select **Create stack**.
  
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-cloudwatch-exporter.md, after:

---
title: Ship Prometheus metrics from AWS CloudWatch with the OpenTelemetry Collector
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Send Prometheus metrics from AWS CloudWatch and OpenTelemetry Collector to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: aws-cloudwatch.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Amazon CloudWatch exporter
data-for-product-source: Metrics
open-source:
  - title: CloudWatch metrics for Prometheus
    github-repo: logzio-aws-metrics
templates: ["docker"]
contributors:
  - yotamloe
  - yberlinger
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - aws
order: 400
---

<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Default configuration](#variables)
* [Custom config](#config)
* [Custom cloudwatch exporter](#cloudwatch)
* [ECS deployment](#ecs)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="overview">

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Try the [CloudWatch Stream](./aws-services) for a better and easier experience.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

With this integration, you can collect Cloudwatch metrics and forward them to Logz.io using the OpenTelemetry collector. We simplify the data export and collection of your metrics. You tell us the desired namespaces and regions that you want to send your data from and we fetch the most relevant metrics to display in the Logz.io pre-built infrastructure monitoring dashboards.

### Important notes

* Extra calls and charges on AWS API requests may be generated by this project.

* You can track the number of AWS API requests with the `cloudwatch_requests_total` metric, which provides labels with the API name and namespace specification. For example, `cloudwatch_requests_total{action="getMetricStatistics",namespace="AWS/EC2",} 876.0`.

* For more information about the prom/cloudwatch-exporter cost, refer to the relevant [Prometheus documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#cost) and to the [AWS cloudwatch API pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/).

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="variables">

This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with environment variables to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account.  We recommend using this configuration as default.
  
<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".

##### Run the container with environment variables
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-e TOKEN=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> \
-e LOGZIO_REGION=<<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
-e AWS_REGION=<<AWS_REGION>> \
-e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
-e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
-e AWS_NAMESPACES=<<AWS_NAMESPACES>> \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_REGION (Required) | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LOGZIO_REGION (Required)| Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| `<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` (Required)| Token for shipping metrics to your Logz.io account. Find it under Settings > Manage accounts. [_How do I look up my Metrics account token?_](/user-guide/accounts/finding-your-metrics-account-token/) |
| AWS_NAMESPACES (Required) | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html).   **Note:** This Environment variable is required unless you define the `CUSTOM_CONFIG` Environment variable |
| SCRAPE_INTERVAL | The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = `300`.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60.|
| P8S_LOGZIO_NAME | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io came from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`.  |
| CUSTOM_CONFIG | Mount your cloudwatch exporter configuration file `-v pathToConfig/config.yml:config_files/cloudwatch.yml` and set to `true` if you want to use custom configuration for cloudwatch exporter, Default = `false` |
| CUSTOM_LISTENER | Set a custom URL to ship metrics to (for example, http://localhost:9200). This overrides the `LOGZIO_REGION` Environment variable. |
| SCRAPE_TIMEOUT | The time to wait before throttling a scrape request to cloudwatch exporter, Default = `120`|
| REMOTE_TIMEOUT | the time to wait before throttling remote write post request to logz.io, Default = `120`|
| LOG_LEVEL | Opentelemetry log level, Default = `debug` |
| LOGZIO_LOG_LEVEL | `builder.py` Python script log level. Default = `info` |
| AWS_ROLE_ARN | Your IAM role to assume. |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID | Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Your IAM user's secret key. |
| SET_TIMESTAMP | Boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp. Default = `false` |
| PERIOD_SECONDS | period to request the metric for. Only the most recent data point is used. Default = `300` |
| RANGE_SECONDS | how far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours. Default = `300` |
| DELAY_SECONDS | The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged. Default = `300` |

##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
  
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
</div>
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="config">
  
This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with a configuration file to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account. 

<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".
  

##### Run with configuration file
  
Create `config.yml` file:
  
```yaml
otel:
  # your logz.io region
  logzio_region: "us"
  # custom listener address
  custom_listener: ""
  # environment tag that will be attached to all samples
  p8s_logzio_name: "cloudwatch-metrics"
  # your logz.io metrics token
  token: "<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>"
  # the time to wait between scrape requests
  scrape_interval: 300
  # the time to wait before throttling remote write post request to logz.io
  remote_timeout: 120
  # the time to wait before throttling a scrape request to cloudwatch exporter
  scrape_timeout: 120
  # opentelemetry log level
  log_level: "debug"
  # python script log level
  logzio_log_level: "info"
  # aws credentials
  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ""
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ""
cloudwatch:
  # set to true if you are loading a custom configuration file for cloudwatch exporter
  custom_config: "false"
  # your cloudwatch aws region
  region: "us-east-1"
  # role arn to assume
  role_arn: ""
  # list of aws cloudwatch namespaces to monitor
  aws_namespaces: []
  # The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged
  delay_seconds: 300
  # how far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours
  range_seconds: 300
  # period to request the metric for. Only the most recent data point is used
  period_seconds: 300
  # boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp
  set_timestamp: "false"
```

{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}

##### Mount the configuration file to your container
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:/config_files/config.yml \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
  
##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
  
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
</div>
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="cloudwatch">

This integration allows you to run a Cloudwatch exporter as a Docker container with both environment variables and a configuration file to send Cloudwatch metrics to your Logz.io account. Please note that the envorinment variables will always overwrite variables specified in the configuration file in case the variables overlap.

  
<div class="tasklist">

##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1", and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".

  
##### Run with custom Cloudwatch exporter configuration
  
Create `cloudwatch.yml` file (for details refer to [prom/cloudwatch_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#configuration) project),
and mount the configuration file to your container and set `CUSTOM_CONFIG` variable to `true`:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-e TOKEN=<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> \
-e LOGZIO_REGION=<<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
-e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
-e CUSTOM_CONFIG=true \
-e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
-v <<path_to_cloudwatch_config_file>>:/config_files/cloudwatch.yml \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```

{% include general-shipping/replace-placeholders-prometheus.html %}
  
##### Publish extension ports
  
You can monitor the container using opentelemetry extensions in the following ports:
* 8888 - `opentelemetry metrics`
* 55679 - `Zpages`
* 13133 - `Health check`
* 1777 - `Pprof`
  
You can also publish the ports to your host network by using the `-p` flag:
  
```shell
docker run --name cloudwatch-metrics \
-v <<path_to_config_file>>:config_files/config.yml \
-p 8888:8888 \
-p 55679:55679 \
-p 13133:13133 \
-p 1777:1777 \
logzio/cloudwatch-metrics
```
  
</div>
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="ecs">

This integration deploys the `logzio/cloudwatch-metrics` container directly to ECS using a dedicated Cloudformation stack. It deploys a new ECS cluster, ECS service and task definition.
  
<div class="tasklist">
  
##### Auto-deploy the Container
  
👇 To begin, click the start button corresponding to your region to start the automated deployment in your environment.

  
| Region | Deployment link |
|---|---|
| us-east-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-east-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-west-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| us-west-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-west-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-central-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-central-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-west-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| eu-west-2 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-west-2#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-east-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-east-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-southeast-3 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-southeast-3#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |
| ap-south-1 | [![Deploy to AWS](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/lights/LightS-button.png)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=ap-south-1#/stacks/create/template?templateURL=https://logzio-aws-integrations-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-auto-deployment/cloudwatch-metrics-ecs-deployment.yml&stackName=logzio-cloudwatch-shipper) |

##### Specify the template
  
Keep the defaults and click **Next**.

##### Specify the stack details
  
![Specify stack details](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/ecs/stack_details_ecs.png)

Specify the stack details as per the table below and select **Next**.
  
| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| AwsRegion  | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LogzioRegion | Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| Token | Your Logz.io metrics shipping token:`<<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>` |
| AwsNamespaces  | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html). |
| ScrapeInterval | The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = `300`.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60. |
| P8sLogzioName | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io come from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`. |
| ScrapeTimeOut | Time to wait before throttling a scrape request to the Cloudwatch exporter. Default = `120`|
| RemoteTimeOut | Time to wait before throttling remote write post request to Logz.io. Default = `120`|
| AwsAccesskeyId | Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AwsSecretAccesskey | Your IAM user's secret key. |
| SetTimestamp | Boolean for whether to set the Prometheus metric timestamp as the original Cloudwatch timestamp. Default = `false` |
| PeriodSeconds | Period to request metrics for. Only the most recent data point is used. Default = `300` |
| RangeSeconds | How far back to request data for. Useful for cases such as Billing metrics that are only set every few hours. Default = `300` |
| DelaySeconds | The newest data to request. Used to avoid collecting data that has not fully converged. Default = `300` |
| VPC |  The VPC to deploy the ECS resources. |
| ServiceName | Select name for the new ECS service. |
| Subnet | Subnet to deploy the ECS resources. |
  
##### Configure the stack options

Keep the defaults and click **Next**.

##### Review the deployment

Confirm that you acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources and select **Create stack**.
  
  
</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->
