_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-remote-write-shipping.md, before:

---
title: Configuring remote write for Prometheus 
logo:
  logofile: prometheusio-icon.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Remote write for Prometheus
data-for-product-source: Metrics
flags:
  logzio-plan:  
templates: ["docker"]
sitemap: false 
noindex: true
contributors:
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:
contributors:
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
  - popular
order: 370
---

To send your Prometheus application metrics to a Logz.io Infrastructure Monitoring account, use remote write to connect to Logz.io as the endpoint. Your data is formatted as JSON documents by the Logz.io listener. 


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
**Multiple server environments:**  If you have multiple Prometheus server instances, you'll have to add Logz.io as an endpoint for each instance.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


#### Configuring Remote Write to Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

{% include p8s-shipping/remotewrite-syd-userguide-tokens-lookup.html %}

##### Add a remote_write url


Configure your Prometheus yaml file or use a Helm chart: 

###### To configure a Prometheus yaml file

Add the following parameters to your Prometheus yaml file:

| Environment variable | Description |Required/Default|
|---|---|---|
{% include p8s-shipping/p8s_logzio_name.md %}||
{% include p8s-shipping/remotewrite-syd-userguide-values-not-to-show-in-app.html %}


```yaml
global:
  external_labels:
    p8s_logzio_name: <labelvalue>
remote_write:
  - url: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    bearer_token: <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> 
    remote_timeout: 30s
    queue_config:
      batch_send_deadline: 5s  #default = 5s
      max_shards: 10  #default = 1000
      min_shards: 1
      max_samples_per_send: 500 #default = 100
      capacity: 10000  #default = 500

```

###### To configure a Helm chart

For [kube-prometheus-stack](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack) Helm chart users:

Edit your chart `values.yaml` file in the following sections:

+ remote write:

```yaml
remoteWrite:
    - url: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053  # The Logz.io Listener URL for your region, configured to use port **8052** for http traffic, or port **8053** for https traffic. 
      bearerToken: <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> # The Logz.io Prometheus metrics account token
      remoteTimeout: 30s
      queueConfig:
        batchSendDeadline: 5s  #default = 5s
        maxShards: 10  #default = 1000
        maxSamplesPerSend: 500 #default = 100
        capacity: 10000  #default = 500
```

+ externalLabels:

```yaml
externalLabels:
  p8s_logzio_name: <labelvalue>
```

   
##### Verify the remote_write configuration

+ **Run a query**: If you are scraping Prometheus metrics, you can check that the remote_write configuration is working properly by doing one of the following and verifying that the result is greater than zero (n > 0) for the url:

  * Run a query on your local Prometheus interface for the metric `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_in_total`. 

  * Check for the metric in the `/metrics` endpoint on your Prometheus server. 

+ **Check via Metrics Explore**: To verify that metrics are arriving to Logz,io: 
  1. Open Metrics **Explore** via the compass icon in the left menu bar. 

  2. Examine the **Metrics** dropdown list below the **Explore** heading in the upper left of the pane. <br>
    An empty list or the text _no metrics_ indicates that the remote write configuration is not working properly. 
    ![Verify Prometheus metrics](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana/select-metric-query.png)

##### Open Metrics Explore

Once you've verified that your data is available in Logz.io, [explore your Prometheus metrics.](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/metrics-explore-prometheus/)


After your metrics are flowing, [import your existing Prometheus and Grafana dashboards](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/prometheus-importing-dashbds.html) to Logz.io Infrastructure Monitoring as JSON files.  

</div>

### Performance tips


* **Reduce tagging**: By default, all the metrics from your Prometheus server(s) are sent to Logz.io. To drop or send specific metrics, add Prometheus labeling _before_ enabling the remote write, or as part of the remote write configuration.  Learn more about Prometheus [relabeling tricks here.](https://medium.com/quiq-blog/prometheus-relabeling-tricks-6ae62c56cbda)


* **Metrics metadata dashboards**: If you have both Prometheus & Grafana, you can activate a dashboard as part of the remote write configuration that will show you the queue size and how many metrics you're sending. If your queue size increases, it might be necessary to open an additional channel. _(currently in development)_

* **Tune the remote write process**: Learn more about Prometheus [remote write tuning here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/)

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_prometheus-sources/prometheus-remote-write-shipping.md, after:

---
title: Configuring remote write for Prometheus 
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Configuring remote write for Prometheus to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: prometheusio-icon.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Remote write for Prometheus
data-for-product-source: Metrics
flags:
  logzio-plan:  
templates: ["docker"]
sitemap: false 
noindex: true
contributors:
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:
contributors:
  - yberlinger
shipping-tags:  
  - prometheus
  - popular
order: 370
---

To send your Prometheus application metrics to a Logz.io Infrastructure Monitoring account, use remote write to connect to Logz.io as the endpoint. Your data is formatted as JSON documents by the Logz.io listener. 


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
**Multiple server environments:**  If you have multiple Prometheus server instances, you'll have to add Logz.io as an endpoint for each instance.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


#### Configuring Remote Write to Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

{% include p8s-shipping/remotewrite-syd-userguide-tokens-lookup.html %}

##### Add a remote_write url


Configure your Prometheus yaml file or use a Helm chart: 

###### To configure a Prometheus yaml file

Add the following parameters to your Prometheus yaml file:

| Environment variable | Description |Required/Default|
|---|---|---|
{% include p8s-shipping/p8s_logzio_name.md %}||
{% include p8s-shipping/remotewrite-syd-userguide-values-not-to-show-in-app.html %}


```yaml
global:
  external_labels:
    p8s_logzio_name: <labelvalue>
remote_write:
  - url: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053
    bearer_token: <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> 
    remote_timeout: 30s
    queue_config:
      batch_send_deadline: 5s  #default = 5s
      max_shards: 10  #default = 1000
      min_shards: 1
      max_samples_per_send: 500 #default = 100
      capacity: 10000  #default = 500

```

###### To configure a Helm chart

For [kube-prometheus-stack](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack) Helm chart users:

Edit your chart `values.yaml` file in the following sections:

+ remote write:

```yaml
remoteWrite:
    - url: https://<<LISTENER-HOST>>:8053  # The Logz.io Listener URL for your region, configured to use port **8052** for http traffic, or port **8053** for https traffic. 
      bearerToken: <<PROMETHEUS-METRICS-SHIPPING-TOKEN>> # The Logz.io Prometheus metrics account token
      remoteTimeout: 30s
      queueConfig:
        batchSendDeadline: 5s  #default = 5s
        maxShards: 10  #default = 1000
        maxSamplesPerSend: 500 #default = 100
        capacity: 10000  #default = 500
```

+ externalLabels:

```yaml
externalLabels:
  p8s_logzio_name: <labelvalue>
```

   
##### Verify the remote_write configuration

+ **Run a query**: If you are scraping Prometheus metrics, you can check that the remote_write configuration is working properly by doing one of the following and verifying that the result is greater than zero (n > 0) for the url:

  * Run a query on your local Prometheus interface for the metric `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_in_total`. 

  * Check for the metric in the `/metrics` endpoint on your Prometheus server. 

+ **Check via Metrics Explore**: To verify that metrics are arriving to Logz,io: 
  1. Open Metrics **Explore** via the compass icon in the left menu bar. 

  2. Examine the **Metrics** dropdown list below the **Explore** heading in the upper left of the pane. <br>
    An empty list or the text _no metrics_ indicates that the remote write configuration is not working properly. 
    ![Verify Prometheus metrics](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/grafana/select-metric-query.png)

##### Open Metrics Explore

Once you've verified that your data is available in Logz.io, [explore your Prometheus metrics.](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/metrics-explore-prometheus/)


After your metrics are flowing, [import your existing Prometheus and Grafana dashboards](https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/infrastructure-monitoring/prometheus-importing-dashbds.html) to Logz.io Infrastructure Monitoring as JSON files.  

</div>

### Performance tips


* **Reduce tagging**: By default, all the metrics from your Prometheus server(s) are sent to Logz.io. To drop or send specific metrics, add Prometheus labeling _before_ enabling the remote write, or as part of the remote write configuration.  Learn more about Prometheus [relabeling tricks here.](https://medium.com/quiq-blog/prometheus-relabeling-tricks-6ae62c56cbda)


* **Metrics metadata dashboards**: If you have both Prometheus & Grafana, you can activate a dashboard as part of the remote write configuration that will show you the queue size and how many metrics you're sending. If your queue size increases, it might be necessary to open an additional channel. _(currently in development)_

* **Tune the remote write process**: Learn more about Prometheus [remote write tuning here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/)
