_source/user-guide/accounts/homepage.md, before:

---
layout: article
title: Set a custom Logz.io landing page
permalink: /user-guide/accounts/homepage.html
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Choose your main Logz.io landing page
flags:
  logzio-plan: community
tags:
  - accounts
  - sub-accounts
  - main-account
  - timeless-accounts
contributors:
  - hidan
---

You can set a custom landing page to view when logging into your Logz.io account.

The landing page can be any screen, dashboard, and visualization from your Logs, Metrics, or Tracing accounts.

#### Set up your landing page

Your default landing page is the [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd) main screen. 

To change it, navigate to **[Settings > General Settings](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general)**.

Open the drop down list to view all of the available options you can choose from. You can either scroll through the various options or type to search a specific page or dashboard. 

<!-- ![Main landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-main.png) -->

![Search for landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-dropdown.png)

Once you choose a new landing page, a popup will appear asking you to approve the change. Clicking on **Set landing page** will confirm the change.

![Popup confirmation](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/change-landing-page-confirm.png)

That's it! Your new landing page will appear whenever you log into Logz.io, or when you click on the Logz.io icon at the top left corner of the screen.


##### Icon dictionary

Each item on the list includes:

* An **icon** representing where the item is located. It can be a page inside Logs, Metrics, or Tracing.
* The **name** of the page or item.
* A **short description** providing more information about the page or item.



|**Icon**|**Location**|
|![logs](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/logs.svg)|Logs|
|![metrics](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/metrics.svg)|Metrics|
|![tracing](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/tracing.svg)|Tracing|

For example, **Payment SLO** has the Metrics logo, stating it's part of your Metrics environment.

![Landing page info](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-choose.png)

#### Reset your landing page

To reset your chosen Landing page, navigate to **[Settings > General Settings](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general)** and click on the **Reset to default** option next to the landing page.

The landing page default setting is Logz.io's [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

<!-- The landing page default setting is Logz.io's [Home Dashboard](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/home). -->

![Reset landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-reset.png)

Commit message:

Landing page - note per user (#2392)
* per user

* s

_source/user-guide/accounts/homepage.md, after:

---
layout: article
title: Set a custom Logz.io landing page
permalink: /user-guide/accounts/homepage.html
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Choose your main Logz.io landing page
flags:
  logzio-plan: community
tags:
  - accounts
  - sub-accounts
  - main-account
  - timeless-accounts
contributors:
  - hidan
---

You can set a custom landing page to view when logging into your Logz.io account. 

Any screen, saved search, dashboard, or visualization from your Logs, Metrics, or Traces accounts can be used as a landing page, and it's **set per user**, so you can choose your own landing page that'll be available only to you, without overriding or editing your team members' landing page. 

#### Set up your landing page

Your default landing page is the [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd) main screen. 

To change it, navigate to **[Settings > General Settings](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general)**.

Open the drop down list to view all of the available options you can choose from. You can either scroll through the various options or type to search a specific page or dashboard. 

<!-- ![Main landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-main.png) -->

![Search for landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-dropdown.png)

Once you choose a new landing page, a popup will appear asking you to approve the change. Clicking on **Set landing page** will confirm the change.

![Popup confirmation](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/change-landing-page-confirm.png)

That's it! Your new landing page will appear whenever you log into Logz.io, or when you click on the Logz.io icon at the top left corner of the screen.


##### Icon dictionary

Each item on the list includes:

* An **icon** representing where the item is located. It can be a page inside Logs, Metrics, or Tracing.
* The **name** of the page or item.
* A **short description** providing more information about the page or item.



|**Icon**|**Location**|
|![logs](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/logs.svg)|Logs|
|![metrics](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/metrics.svg)|Metrics|
|![tracing](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/tracing.svg)|Tracing|

For example, **Payment SLO** has the Metrics logo, stating it's part of your Metrics environment.

![Landing page info](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-choose.png)

#### Reset your landing page

To reset your chosen Landing page, navigate to **[Settings > General Settings](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/general)** and click on the **Reset to default** option next to the landing page.

The landing page default setting is Logz.io's [OpenSearch Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

<!-- The landing page default setting is Logz.io's [Home Dashboard](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/home). -->

![Reset landing page](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/accounts/landing-page/landing-page-reset.png)
