_source/user-guide/cloud-siem/manage-security-events.md, before:

---
layout: article
title: Managing security events
permalink: /user-guide/cloud-siem/manage-security-events.html
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Manage your security events on Logz.io
flags:
  logzio-plan: pro
tags:
  - siem
contributors:
  - nshishkin
---

Cloud SIEM has an integrated platform for security events management. Here you can view security events that have occured, edit them, assign a security rule to a team member. You can filter the list using the top menu filters and the search bar.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-2.png)


### Access Event Management

To access the **Event Management** platform:


1. Sign in to Logz.io.

2. Go to **SIEM > Event Management**.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-1.png)




### Edit an event rule

To edit a rule for an event:


1. Select the three dots menu on the right side of an event that you need to edit and then select **Edit**. It will open the editor for the event rules.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-3.png)


2. Edit the rule conditions. This is different for regular rules where you can edit any field and a protected rule where some fields are locked.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-4.png)



### Edit the event information

To edit the management information on an event:


1. Select **Edit** on the event row.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-5.png)


2. Change the rule status, assignment or a comment to the rule.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-6.png)

Commit message:

Event manager retention - add note (#2326)
* add note

* bold

_source/user-guide/cloud-siem/manage-security-events.md, after:

---
layout: article
title: Managing security events
permalink: /user-guide/cloud-siem/manage-security-events.html
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Manage your security events on Logz.io
flags:
  logzio-plan: pro
tags:
  - siem
contributors:
  - nshishkin
---

Cloud SIEM has an integrated platform for security events management. Here you can view security events that have occured, edit them, assign a security rule to a team member. You can filter the list using the top menu filters and the search bar.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-2.png)




The event manager has a retention period of 2 weeks. Older events are **saved as logs** on your security account and can be viewed from OpenSearch Dashboards.
{:.info-box.note}



### Access Event Management

To access the **Event Management** platform:


1. Sign in to Logz.io.

2. Go to **SIEM > Event Management**.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-1.png)




### Edit an event rule

To edit a rule for an event:


1. Select the three dots menu on the right side of an event that you need to edit and then select **Edit**. It will open the editor for the event rules.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-3.png)


2. Edit the rule conditions. This is different for regular rules where you can edit any field and a protected rule where some fields are locked.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-4.png)



### Edit the event information

To edit the management information on an event:


1. Select **Edit** on the event row.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-5.png)


2. Change the rule status, assignment or a comment to the rule.

   ![Notification](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/siem-quick-start/event_management-6.png)
