_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/active-directory-winserver.md, before:

---
title: Ship Active Directory logs from Windows Server
logo:
  logofile: windows.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Active Directory
templates: ["beats-logs"]
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
shipping-tags:
  - windows
order: 200
---
Active Directory is a directory service developed by Microsoft for Windows domain networks. This integration allows you to send Active Directory logs to your Logz.io SIEM account.

#### Configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:
[Winlogbeat 7.0.0](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/winlogbeat-7-0-0) or
[Winlogbeat 6](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/winlogbeat/6.8/winlogbeat-installation.html)

<div class="tasklist">


##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt`
on your machine.

##### Configure Windows applications as an input

If you're working with the default configuration file,
(`C:\Program Files\Winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml`)
clear the content and start with a fresh file.

Paste this code block.

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

```yaml
# ...
winlogbeat.event_logs:
  - name: Application
    ignore_older: 72h
  - name: Security
  - name: System

fields:
  logzio_codec: json

  # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
  #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
  token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  type: wineventlog
fields_under_root: true
```

If you're running Winlogbeat 7, paste this code block.
Otherwise, you can leave it out.

```yaml
# ... For Winlogbeat 7 only ...
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "agent"
        to: "beat_agent"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log.file.path"
        to: "source"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log"
        to: "log_information"
      ignore_missing: true
```

##### Set Logz.io as the output

If Logz.io isn't the output, set it now.

Winlogbeat can have one output only, so remove any other `output` entries.

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

```yaml
# ...
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

##### Restart Winlogbeat

```powershell
Restart-Service winlogbeat
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [log shipping troubleshooting]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/log-shipping/log-shipping-troubleshooting.html).

</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/active-directory-winserver.md, after:

---
title: Ship Active Directory logs from Windows Server
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship Active Directory logs from Windows Server to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: windows.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Active Directory
templates: ["beats-logs"]
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
shipping-tags:
  - windows
order: 200
---
Active Directory is a directory service developed by Microsoft for Windows domain networks. This integration allows you to send Active Directory logs to your Logz.io SIEM account.

#### Configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:
[Winlogbeat 7.0.0](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/winlogbeat-7-0-0) or
[Winlogbeat 6](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/winlogbeat/6.8/winlogbeat-installation.html)

<div class="tasklist">


##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt`
on your machine.

##### Configure Windows applications as an input

If you're working with the default configuration file,
(`C:\Program Files\Winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml`)
clear the content and start with a fresh file.

Paste this code block.

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

```yaml
# ...
winlogbeat.event_logs:
  - name: Application
    ignore_older: 72h
  - name: Security
  - name: System

fields:
  logzio_codec: json

  # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
  #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
  token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  type: wineventlog
fields_under_root: true
```

If you're running Winlogbeat 7, paste this code block.
Otherwise, you can leave it out.

```yaml
# ... For Winlogbeat 7 only ...
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "agent"
        to: "beat_agent"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log.file.path"
        to: "source"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log"
        to: "log_information"
      ignore_missing: true
```

##### Set Logz.io as the output

If Logz.io isn't the output, set it now.

Winlogbeat can have one output only, so remove any other `output` entries.

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

```yaml
# ...
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

##### Restart Winlogbeat

```powershell
Restart-Service winlogbeat
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [log shipping troubleshooting]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/log-shipping/log-shipping-troubleshooting.html).

</div>
