_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/avast.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from Avast
logo:
  logofile: avast.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Avast Antivirus
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[Avast Antivirus](https://www.avast.com/) is a family of cross-platform internet security applications. This topic describes how to send system logs from your Avast Antivirus platform to Logz.io. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Avast Antivirus installed on your machine
* An active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

#### Default configuration

<div class="tasklist">

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\FileSystemShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
       type: pattern 
       pattern: '(\d\d/\d\d/\d\d\d\d)' 
       negate: true 
       match: after
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\Full Virus Scan.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\* Avast Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\aswBoot.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\d{2}\/\d{2}\/\d{4} \d{2}:\d{2}\nScan of'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\WebShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\*\n\* Avast Real-time Shield Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "agent"
          to: "beat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "log.file.path"
          to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output:
     logstash:
       hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]  
       ssl:
         certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\filebeat\Logzio.crt']

   ```

   If you're running Filebeat 7 to 8.1, paste the code block below instead:


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\FileSystemShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
       type: pattern 
       pattern: '(\d\d/\d\d/\d\d\d\d)' 
       negate: true 
       match: after
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\Full Virus Scan.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\* Avast Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\aswBoot.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\d{2}\/\d{2}\/\d{4} \d{2}:\d{2}\nScan of'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\WebShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\*\n\* Avast Real-time Shield Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "agent"
          to: "beat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "log.file.path"
          to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output:
     logstash:
       hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]  
       ssl:
         certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\filebeat\Logzio.crt']

   ```
  
  
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `avast` to see the incoming Axonius logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).
  
</div>

#### Optional configuration with report files

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure Avast Antivirus to generate report files for your scans
  
If you want to send data from virus scans together with the logs, you need to enable Avast Antivirus to generate report files for these scans. You do not need to change antything in the Filebeat configuration as it already includes paths to these report files.
  
To enable this:

1. Open Avast Antivirus.
2. Navigate to **Menu > Settings > Protection > Virus Scans > Full Virus Scan**.
3. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.
4. Navigate to **Targeted Scan**.
5. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.
6. Navigate to **Explorer Scan**.
7. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.


</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/avast.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from Avast
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from Avast to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: avast.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Avast Antivirus
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[Avast Antivirus](https://www.avast.com/) is a family of cross-platform internet security applications. This topic describes how to send system logs from your Avast Antivirus platform to Logz.io. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Avast Antivirus installed on your machine
* An active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

#### Default configuration

<div class="tasklist">

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\FileSystemShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
       type: pattern 
       pattern: '(\d\d/\d\d/\d\d\d\d)' 
       negate: true 
       match: after
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\Full Virus Scan.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\* Avast Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\aswBoot.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\d{2}\/\d{2}\/\d{4} \d{2}:\d{2}\nScan of'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: filestream
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\WebShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\*\n\* Avast Real-time Shield Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "agent"
          to: "beat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "log.file.path"
          to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output:
     logstash:
       hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]  
       ssl:
         certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\filebeat\Logzio.crt']

   ```

   If you're running Filebeat 7 to 8.1, paste the code block below instead:


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\FileSystemShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
       type: pattern 
       pattern: '(\d\d/\d\d/\d\d\d\d)' 
       negate: true 
       match: after
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\Full Virus Scan.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\* Avast Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\aswBoot.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\d{2}\/\d{2}\/\d{4} \d{2}:\d{2}\nScan of'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   - type: log
     paths:
       - C:\ProgramData\Avast Software\Avast\report\WebShield.txt
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: avast
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
     multiline:
      pattern: '^\*\n\* Avast Real-time Shield Scan Report'
      negate: true
      match: after
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "agent"
          to: "beat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
        - from: "log.file.path"
          to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output:
     logstash:
       hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]  
       ssl:
         certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\filebeat\Logzio.crt']

   ```
  
  
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `avast` to see the incoming Axonius logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).
  
</div>

#### Optional configuration with report files

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure Avast Antivirus to generate report files for your scans
  
If you want to send data from virus scans together with the logs, you need to enable Avast Antivirus to generate report files for these scans. You do not need to change antything in the Filebeat configuration as it already includes paths to these report files.
  
To enable this:

1. Open Avast Antivirus.
2. Navigate to **Menu > Settings > Protection > Virus Scans > Full Virus Scan**.
3. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.
4. Navigate to **Targeted Scan**.
5. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.
6. Navigate to **Explorer Scan**.
7. Check the **Generate report file** checkbox.


</div>
