_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/axonius.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from Axonius
logo:
  logofile: axonius.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Axonius
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[Axonius](https://www.axonius.com/) is a cybersecurity asset management platform. This topic describes how to send system logs from your Axonius platform to Logz.io. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* An active account with Axonius
* An active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure Axonius to send syslog notifications to a remote Syslog server running Filebeat

1. On your Axonius web interface, go to **System Settings > Global Settings > Syslog Settings**.
![Axonius](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/axonius/axonius514.png)
2. Select **Use Syslog**.
3. Enter the IP address of your remote syslog server into the **Syslog host** field. This is the server where you run Filebeat.
4. Enter the port number into the **Port** field.
5. Select **UDP** in the **Protocol** menu.

  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
By default, syslog will be forwarded over port 514. Feel free to adjust this, based on your preference or availability, but be sure to note any change to this port in the Filebeat configuration.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   - type: udp
     max_message_size: 10MiB
     host: "<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>:514"
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
       #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: axonius
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "agent"
         to: "filebeat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "log.file.path"
         to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output.logstash:
     hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
     ssl:
       certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
   ```
  
   * Replace `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>` with the address of your server running Filebeat.
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `axonius` to see the incoming Axonius logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).


</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/axonius.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from Axonius
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from Axonius to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: axonius.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Axonius
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[Axonius](https://www.axonius.com/) is a cybersecurity asset management platform. This topic describes how to send system logs from your Axonius platform to Logz.io. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* An active account with Axonius
* An active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure Axonius to send syslog notifications to a remote Syslog server running Filebeat

1. On your Axonius web interface, go to **System Settings > Global Settings > Syslog Settings**.
![Axonius](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/axonius/axonius514.png)
2. Select **Use Syslog**.
3. Enter the IP address of your remote syslog server into the **Syslog host** field. This is the server where you run Filebeat.
4. Enter the port number into the **Port** field.
5. Select **UDP** in the **Protocol** menu.

  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
By default, syslog will be forwarded over port 514. Feel free to adjust this, based on your preference or availability, but be sure to note any change to this port in the Filebeat configuration.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   - type: udp
     max_message_size: 10MiB
     host: "<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>:514"
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
       #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: axonius
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "agent"
         to: "filebeat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "log.file.path"
         to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output.logstash:
     hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
     ssl:
       certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
   ```
  
   * Replace `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>` with the address of your server running Filebeat.
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `axonius` to see the incoming Axonius logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).


</div>
