_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/microsoft-graph-asc.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from Azure Security Center
logo:
  logofile: azc-logo.png
  orientation: horizontal
data-source: Azure Security Center
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["no-template"]
open-source:
  - title: Logzio-MSGraph
    github-repo: microsoft-graph
contributors:
  - yyyogev
  - imnotashrimp
  - shalper
shipping-tags:
  - azure
order: 930
---

You can ship logs available from Azure Security Center via the Microsoft Graph APIs with Logzio-MSGraph. Logzio-MSGraph is a self-hosted application.

Logzio-MSGraph currently supports the following Azure Security Center APIs:

* Alerts

There are many other APIs available through Microsoft Graph.
If you don't see your API in the list,
please [open an issue](https://github.com/logzio/microsoft-graph/issues/new) at GitHub to request it.

#### To integrate Microsoft Graph and Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Register a new app in Azure Active Directory

In the Azure portal, go to [App registration](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade)
and select **New registration** from the top menu.

Name your app and click **Register**.

##### Create a client secret

Choose **Certificates & secrets** from the side menu,
and click on **New client secret**.

Add a **Description**.
We recommend something specific, such as "secret for Logzio-MSGraph integration".

In the **Expires** list, choose **Never**.

Click **Add**.

Copy the value of the generated secret to your text editor.
You'll need this later.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
You won't be able to retrieve the secret's value after you leave this page.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

##### Set the app's permissions

Choose **API permissions** from the side menu,
and click **Add a permission**.

Select **Microsoft Graph > Application permissions**.

Select this item:

* **SecurityEvents.Read.All**


Click **Add permissions**.

Click **Grant admin consent for Default Directory**, and then click **Yes** to confirm.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Only Azure administrators can grant consent for Default Directory. If the _Grant admin consent_ button is disabled, ask your Azure admin to update the setting for you.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

##### Create a configuration file

Create a configuration yaml file (`logzio-msgraph-config.yaml`) for Logzio-MSGraph.

For a complete list of options, see the configuration parameters below.👇

```yaml
senderParams:
  accountToken: "<<SHIPPING-TOKEN>>"
  listenerUrl: "<<LISTENER-HOST>>"

azureADClient:
  pullIntervalSeconds: 300
  tenantId: "<<AD_TENANT_ID>>"
  clientId: "<<APP_CLIENT_ID>>"
  clientSecret: "<<APP_CLIENT_SECRET>>"

targetApi:
  ASCApis:
    - <<supportedApi1>>

logLevel: INFO

additionalFields:
  <<KEY>>: "<<VALUE>>"

```

###### Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
| senderParams.accountToken | Your Logz.io account token. {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %} | Required |
| senderParams.listenerUrl  | Listener URL.    {% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %}  | `listener.logz.io` |
| senderParams.fromDisk  | If `true`, logs are stored on disk until they're shipped. (See **If from-disk=true** below). If `false`, logs persist in memory until they're shipped. (See **If from-disk=false** below. | Optional. Set to `true` by default. |
| senderParams.senderDrainIntervals | How often the sender should drain the queue, in seconds. | Optional, set to `30` by default. |
| azureADClient.tenantId  | Azure Active Directory tenant ID. You can find this in the _Overview_ section of the app you registered in step 1. | Required |
| azureADClient.clientId  | Application client ID.    You can find this in the _Overview_ section of the app you registered in step 1. | Required |
| azureADClient.clientSecret | Value of the Application Client Secret you created in step 2. | Required |
| azureADClient.pullIntervalSeconds | Time interval, in seconds, to pull the logs with the Graph API. | `300` |
| logLevel | Log level for Logizo-MSGraph to omit. Can be one of: `OFF`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`, `ALL`. | `INFO` |


###### If fromDisk=true

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
senderParams.fileSystemFullPercentThreshold  | Threshold percentage of disk space at which to stop queueing. If this threshold is reached, all new logs are dropped until used space drops below the threshold. Set to `-1` to ignore threshold. | `98` |
| senderParams.gcPersistedQueueFilesIntervalSeconds | Time interval, in seconds, to clean sent logs from the disk. | `30` |
| senderParams.diskSpaceCheckInterval | Time interval, in milliseconds, to check for disk space.| `1000` |

###### If fromDisk=false 

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
| senderParams.inMemoryQueueCapacityInBytes  | The amount of memory, in bytes, Logzio-MSGraph can use for the memory queue. Set to `-1` for unlimited bytes. | `1024 * 1024 * 100` |
| senderParams.logsCountLimit | The number of logs in the memory queue before dropping new logs. Set to `-1` to configure the sender to not limit the queue by logs count. | `-1` |

##### Download and run Logzio-MSGraph

You can launch Logzio-MSGraph in a Docker container or as a standalone Java app.

In a Docker container:

```shell
docker run -d -v $(pwd)/logzio-msgraph-config.yaml:/config.yaml logzio/logzio-msgraph
```

Or to run as a standalone Java app,
download the latest jar from the [release page](https://github.com/logzio/microsoft-graph/releases).
Then run:

```shell
java -jar logzio-msgraph.jar logzio-msgraph-config.yaml
```

Logs collected by this integration will have the type `Microsoft-Graph`

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [log shipping troubleshooting]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/log-shipping/log-shipping-troubleshooting.html).

</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/microsoft-graph-asc.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from Azure Security Center
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from Azure Security Center to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: azc-logo.png
  orientation: horizontal
data-source: Azure Security Center
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["no-template"]
open-source:
  - title: Logzio-MSGraph
    github-repo: microsoft-graph
contributors:
  - yyyogev
  - imnotashrimp
  - shalper
shipping-tags:
  - azure
order: 930
---

You can ship logs available from Azure Security Center via the Microsoft Graph APIs with Logzio-MSGraph. Logzio-MSGraph is a self-hosted application.

Logzio-MSGraph currently supports the following Azure Security Center APIs:

* Alerts

There are many other APIs available through Microsoft Graph.
If you don't see your API in the list,
please [open an issue](https://github.com/logzio/microsoft-graph/issues/new) at GitHub to request it.

#### To integrate Microsoft Graph and Logz.io

<div class="tasklist">

##### Register a new app in Azure Active Directory

In the Azure portal, go to [App registration](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade)
and select **New registration** from the top menu.

Name your app and click **Register**.

##### Create a client secret

Choose **Certificates & secrets** from the side menu,
and click on **New client secret**.

Add a **Description**.
We recommend something specific, such as "secret for Logzio-MSGraph integration".

In the **Expires** list, choose **Never**.

Click **Add**.

Copy the value of the generated secret to your text editor.
You'll need this later.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
You won't be able to retrieve the secret's value after you leave this page.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

##### Set the app's permissions

Choose **API permissions** from the side menu,
and click **Add a permission**.

Select **Microsoft Graph > Application permissions**.

Select this item:

* **SecurityEvents.Read.All**


Click **Add permissions**.

Click **Grant admin consent for Default Directory**, and then click **Yes** to confirm.

<!-- info-box-start:info -->
Only Azure administrators can grant consent for Default Directory. If the _Grant admin consent_ button is disabled, ask your Azure admin to update the setting for you.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

##### Create a configuration file

Create a configuration yaml file (`logzio-msgraph-config.yaml`) for Logzio-MSGraph.

For a complete list of options, see the configuration parameters below.👇

```yaml
senderParams:
  accountToken: "<<SHIPPING-TOKEN>>"
  listenerUrl: "<<LISTENER-HOST>>"

azureADClient:
  pullIntervalSeconds: 300
  tenantId: "<<AD_TENANT_ID>>"
  clientId: "<<APP_CLIENT_ID>>"
  clientSecret: "<<APP_CLIENT_SECRET>>"

targetApi:
  ASCApis:
    - <<supportedApi1>>

logLevel: INFO

additionalFields:
  <<KEY>>: "<<VALUE>>"

```

###### Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
| senderParams.accountToken | Your Logz.io account token. {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %} | Required |
| senderParams.listenerUrl  | Listener URL.    {% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %}  | `listener.logz.io` |
| senderParams.fromDisk  | If `true`, logs are stored on disk until they're shipped. (See **If from-disk=true** below). If `false`, logs persist in memory until they're shipped. (See **If from-disk=false** below. | Optional. Set to `true` by default. |
| senderParams.senderDrainIntervals | How often the sender should drain the queue, in seconds. | Optional, set to `30` by default. |
| azureADClient.tenantId  | Azure Active Directory tenant ID. You can find this in the _Overview_ section of the app you registered in step 1. | Required |
| azureADClient.clientId  | Application client ID.    You can find this in the _Overview_ section of the app you registered in step 1. | Required |
| azureADClient.clientSecret | Value of the Application Client Secret you created in step 2. | Required |
| azureADClient.pullIntervalSeconds | Time interval, in seconds, to pull the logs with the Graph API. | `300` |
| logLevel | Log level for Logizo-MSGraph to omit. Can be one of: `OFF`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`, `ALL`. | `INFO` |


###### If fromDisk=true

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
senderParams.fileSystemFullPercentThreshold  | Threshold percentage of disk space at which to stop queueing. If this threshold is reached, all new logs are dropped until used space drops below the threshold. Set to `-1` to ignore threshold. | `98` |
| senderParams.gcPersistedQueueFilesIntervalSeconds | Time interval, in seconds, to clean sent logs from the disk. | `30` |
| senderParams.diskSpaceCheckInterval | Time interval, in milliseconds, to check for disk space.| `1000` |

###### If fromDisk=false 

| Parameter | Description | Required/Default |
|---|---|---|
| senderParams.inMemoryQueueCapacityInBytes  | The amount of memory, in bytes, Logzio-MSGraph can use for the memory queue. Set to `-1` for unlimited bytes. | `1024 * 1024 * 100` |
| senderParams.logsCountLimit | The number of logs in the memory queue before dropping new logs. Set to `-1` to configure the sender to not limit the queue by logs count. | `-1` |

##### Download and run Logzio-MSGraph

You can launch Logzio-MSGraph in a Docker container or as a standalone Java app.

In a Docker container:

```shell
docker run -d -v $(pwd)/logzio-msgraph-config.yaml:/config.yaml logzio/logzio-msgraph
```

Or to run as a standalone Java app,
download the latest jar from the [release page](https://github.com/logzio/microsoft-graph/releases).
Then run:

```shell
java -jar logzio-msgraph.jar logzio-msgraph-config.yaml
```

Logs collected by this integration will have the type `Microsoft-Graph`

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [log shipping troubleshooting]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/log-shipping/log-shipping-troubleshooting.html).

</div>
