_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/palo-alto-networks.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from Palo Alto Networks
logo:
  logofile: palo-alto-networks.svg
  orientation: horizontal
data-source: Palo Alto Networks
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 820
---
Palo Alto Networks provides advanced protection, security and consistency across locations and clouds. This integration allows you to send logs from your Palo Alto Networks applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

#### Guided configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Root access


<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure the firewall to forward logs to Filebeat

You'll need to configure your firewall
to forward logs to your Filebeat server
at port 6514 over UDP.

In your PAN-OS admin console,
click the **Device** tab, and then select **Server Profiles > Syslog** from the left menu.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Syslog Server Profile_ dialog,
and give your profile a descriptive **Name** that includes "logzio".

Click **Add** to add a new server.
Give your new server these settings:

* **Name**: We recommend including "Filebeat" in the name.
* **Syslog Server**: The IP address of your Filebeat server.
* **Transport**: UDP
* **Port**: 6514
* **Format**: BSD
* **Facility**: Leave as "LOG_USER"

Click **OK** to save the profile.

For more information, see [Configure Syslog Monitoring](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/7-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/use-syslog-for-monitoring/configure-syslog-monitoring)
from Palo Alto Networks.

##### Configure syslog forwarding

Click the **Objects** tab, and then select **Log Forwarding** from the left menu.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Log Forwarding Profile_ dialog.
Give your profile a **Name** and optional **Description**.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Log Forwarding Profile Match List_ dialog.
Choose a **Log Type**, and paste that log type in the **Name** box.

In the _Syslog_ panel, click **Add**, and choose the server profile you created in step 1.

Click **OK** to save this log type.

Repeat this process for each log type you plan to send to Filebeat.

Click **OK** to save the log forwarding profile.

##### Configure the security policy rules

Click the **Policies** tab, and then select **Security** from the left menu.

Double-click a security policy,
or create a new security policy,
to open the _Security Policy Rule_ dialog.

Click the **Action** tab,
and select **Log at Session Start** and **Log at Session End**.

In the **Log Forwarding** list, choose the log forwarding profile you created in step 3.

Fill in the required information in tabs with a red squiggly underline.

##### Commit the changes to your firewall

In the upper right corner of the page, click **Commit**.

Select **Commit All Changes**,
and click the **Commit** button to save.

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}

##### Add TCP traffic as an input

In the Filebeat configuration file (/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml), add TCP to the filebeat.inputs section.

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


```yaml
# ...
filebeat.inputs:
- type: udp
  max_message_size: 10MiB
  host: "0.0.0.0:6514"

  fields:
    logzio_codec: plain

    # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
    #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
    type: paloalto
  fields_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h
```

If you're running Filebeat 7, paste this code block.
Otherwise, you can leave it out.

```yaml
# ... For Filebeat 7 only ...
filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
    - from: "agent"
      to: "filebeat_agent"
    ignore_missing: true
- rename:
    fields:
    - from: "log.file.path"
      to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
```

If you're running Filebeat 6, paste this code block.

```yaml
# ... For Filebeat 6 only ...
registry_file: /var/lib/filebeat/registry
```

##### Set Logz.io as the output

If Logz.io is not an output, add it now.
Remove all other outputs.

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

```yaml
# ...
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

##### Start Filebeat

[Start or restart Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/master/filebeat-starting.html) for the changes to take effect.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/palo-alto-networks.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from Palo Alto Networks
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from Palo Alto Networks to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: palo-alto-networks.svg
  orientation: horizontal
data-source: Palo Alto Networks
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - imnotashrimp
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 820
---
Palo Alto Networks provides advanced protection, security and consistency across locations and clouds. This integration allows you to send logs from your Palo Alto Networks applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

#### Guided configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Root access


<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure the firewall to forward logs to Filebeat

You'll need to configure your firewall
to forward logs to your Filebeat server
at port 6514 over UDP.

In your PAN-OS admin console,
click the **Device** tab, and then select **Server Profiles > Syslog** from the left menu.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Syslog Server Profile_ dialog,
and give your profile a descriptive **Name** that includes "logzio".

Click **Add** to add a new server.
Give your new server these settings:

* **Name**: We recommend including "Filebeat" in the name.
* **Syslog Server**: The IP address of your Filebeat server.
* **Transport**: UDP
* **Port**: 6514
* **Format**: BSD
* **Facility**: Leave as "LOG_USER"

Click **OK** to save the profile.

For more information, see [Configure Syslog Monitoring](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/7-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/use-syslog-for-monitoring/configure-syslog-monitoring)
from Palo Alto Networks.

##### Configure syslog forwarding

Click the **Objects** tab, and then select **Log Forwarding** from the left menu.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Log Forwarding Profile_ dialog.
Give your profile a **Name** and optional **Description**.

Click the **Add** button to open the _Log Forwarding Profile Match List_ dialog.
Choose a **Log Type**, and paste that log type in the **Name** box.

In the _Syslog_ panel, click **Add**, and choose the server profile you created in step 1.

Click **OK** to save this log type.

Repeat this process for each log type you plan to send to Filebeat.

Click **OK** to save the log forwarding profile.

##### Configure the security policy rules

Click the **Policies** tab, and then select **Security** from the left menu.

Double-click a security policy,
or create a new security policy,
to open the _Security Policy Rule_ dialog.

Click the **Action** tab,
and select **Log at Session Start** and **Log at Session End**.

In the **Log Forwarding** list, choose the log forwarding profile you created in step 3.

Fill in the required information in tabs with a red squiggly underline.

##### Commit the changes to your firewall

In the upper right corner of the page, click **Commit**.

Select **Commit All Changes**,
and click the **Commit** button to save.

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}

##### Add TCP traffic as an input

In the Filebeat configuration file (/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml), add TCP to the filebeat.inputs section.

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


```yaml
# ...
filebeat.inputs:
- type: udp
  max_message_size: 10MiB
  host: "0.0.0.0:6514"

  fields:
    logzio_codec: plain

    # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
    #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
    type: paloalto
  fields_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h
```

If you're running Filebeat 7, paste this code block.
Otherwise, you can leave it out.

```yaml
# ... For Filebeat 7 only ...
filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
    - from: "agent"
      to: "filebeat_agent"
    ignore_missing: true
- rename:
    fields:
    - from: "log.file.path"
      to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
```

If you're running Filebeat 6, paste this code block.

```yaml
# ... For Filebeat 6 only ...
registry_file: /var/lib/filebeat/registry
```

##### Set Logz.io as the output

If Logz.io is not an output, add it now.
Remove all other outputs.

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

```yaml
# ...
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

##### Start Filebeat

[Start or restart Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/master/filebeat-starting.html) for the changes to take effect.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

</div>
