_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/pfsense.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from pfSense
logo:
  logofile: pfsense-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: pfSense
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[pfSense](https://www.pfsense.org/) is an open source firewall solution. This topic describes how to configure pfSense to send system logs to Logz.io via Filebeat running on a dedicated server. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**: 

* pfSense installed and configured on your machine
* an active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure pfSense to send syslog notifications to a remote Syslog server running Filebeat

1. On your Pfsense firewall web interface, go to **Status > System logs > Setting**.
![Status options](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_Status_Options.png)
2. On the Settings tab, locate the **General Logging Options** area and enable the following configuration:

   * Log message format - syslog (RFC 5424, with RFC 3339 microsecond-precision timestamps)
![General logging](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_General_Logging.png)

3. On the Settings tab, locate the **Remote Logging Options** area and enable the following configuration:

   * Enable Remote Logging - Yes
   * Source Address - Any
   * IP Protocol - IPV4
   * Remote log servers - `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>`:514. This is the address of your dedicated server running Filebeat.
   * Remote Syslog Content - Everything
![Remote logging](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_Remote_Logging_Config.png)

  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
By default, syslog will be forwarded over port 514. Feel free to adjust this, based on your preference or availability, but be sure to note any change to this port in the Filebeat configuration.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   - type: udp
     max_message_size: 10MiB
     host: "<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>:514"
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
       #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: pfsense
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "agent"
         to: "filebeat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "log.file.path"
         to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output.logstash:
     hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
     ssl:
       certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
   ```
  
   * Replace `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>` with the address of your server running Filebeat.
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `pfsense` to see the incoming pfSense logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).


</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/pfsense.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from pfSense
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from pfSense to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: pfsense-logo.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: pfSense
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["network-device-filebeat"]
contributors:
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - firewalls
order: 1380
---
[pfSense](https://www.pfsense.org/) is an open source firewall solution. This topic describes how to configure pfSense to send system logs to Logz.io via Filebeat running on a dedicated server. 

**Before you begin, you'll need**: 

* pfSense installed and configured on your machine
* an active account with Logz.io
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html) installed on your machine
* Root priveleges on your machines 

<div class="tasklist">


##### Configure pfSense to send syslog notifications to a remote Syslog server running Filebeat

1. On your Pfsense firewall web interface, go to **Status > System logs > Setting**.
![Status options](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_Status_Options.png)
2. On the Settings tab, locate the **General Logging Options** area and enable the following configuration:

   * Log message format - syslog (RFC 5424, with RFC 3339 microsecond-precision timestamps)
![General logging](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_General_Logging.png)

3. On the Settings tab, locate the **Remote Logging Options** area and enable the following configuration:

   * Enable Remote Logging - Yes
   * Source Address - Any
   * IP Protocol - IPV4
   * Remote log servers - `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>`:514. This is the address of your dedicated server running Filebeat.
   * Remote Syslog Content - Everything
![Remote logging](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/pfsense/Pfsense_Remote_Logging_Config.png)

  
<!-- info-box-start:info -->
By default, syslog will be forwarded over port 514. Feel free to adjust this, based on your preference or availability, but be sure to note any change to this port in the Filebeat configuration.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}


##### Configure Filebeat

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


1. Paste the following into the inputs section of the Filebeat configuration file:

   ```yaml
   filebeat.inputs:
   - type: udp
     max_message_size: 10MiB
     host: "<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>:514"
     fields:
       logzio_codec: plain
       # Your Logz.io account token. You can find your token at
       #  https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/settings/manage-accounts
       token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
       type: pfsense
     fields_under_root: true
     encoding: utf-8
     ignore_older: 3h
   filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
   processors:
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "agent"
         to: "filebeat_agent"
       ignore_missing: true
   - rename:
       fields:
       - from: "log.file.path"
         to: "source"
       ignore_missing: true
   output.logstash:
     hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
     ssl:
       certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
   ```
  
   * Replace `<<ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-FILEBEAT-SERVER>>` with the address of your server running Filebeat.
   * {% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.md %}
   * {% include log-shipping/listener-var.md %}

2. Run Filebeat with the new configuration.

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can filter for data of type `pfsense` to see the incoming pfSense logs.
  
If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).


</div>
