_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/sophos.md, before:

---
title: Ship logs from Sophos
logo:
  logofile: sophos-shield.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Sophos
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
contributors:
  - shalper
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - endpoint-security
order: 740
---
<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Sophos for Linux](#linux)
* [Sophos for Windows](#windows)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="linux">

Sophos Endpoint is an endpoint protection product that combines antimalware, web and application control, device control and much more. This integration allows you to send logs from your Linux-based Sophos applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Sophos Intercept X Endpoint installed
* Access to the [Sophos Central Cloud console](https://central.sophos.com/)
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Terminal access to the instance running Filebeat. It is recommended to run the Sophos API script from the same instance running your Filebeat.



<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure Sophos to collect the Central Cloud logs

Follow the official instructions provided by Sophos for [collecting Sophos Central Cloud logs from all machines](https://support.sophos.com/support/s/article/KB-000036372?language=en_US).

The procedure involves using the Sophos API. Make sure that the `config.ini` used in the Sophos siem.py script is under `format = json` (this is the default setting).

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}

##### Configure Filebeat

Open the Filebeat configuration file (`/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`) with your preferred text editor.

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


Copy and paste the code block below, overwriting the previous content, to replace the general configuration with the following settings:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: filestream
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

If you're running Filebeat 7 to 8.1, paste the code block below instead:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#For version 7 and higher
filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
#The following processors are to ensure compatibility with version 7
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "type"
       to: "event_type"
    ignore_missing: true
- add_fields:
    target: ''
    fields:
      type: "sophos-ep"
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "log.file.path"
       to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
- drop_event:
    when:
      regexp:
        message: "^\\s*$"
#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```




{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

Change `<<FILE_PATH>>` to the output TXT file retrieved from the Sophos siem.py script.


One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.

##### Start Filebeat

[Start or restart Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/master/filebeat-starting.html) for the changes to take effect.


##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can search or filter for Sophos logs, under `type:sophos-ep`.

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

##### Contact support to request custom parsing assistance

The logs will require customized parsing so they can be effectively mapped in Open Search Dashboards.

[Email our support](mailto:help@logz.io?subject=Requesting%20parsing%20assistance%20for%20Sophos%20security%20logs&body=Hi!%20Please%20be%20in%20touch%20with%20further%20instructions%20for%20parsing%20Sophos%20security%20logs.%20Thanks!) to request custom parsing assistance.


</div>

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->


<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="windows">
Sophos Endpoint is an endpoint protection product that combines antimalware, web and application control, device control and much more. This integration allows you to send logs from your Windows-based Sophos applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Sophos Intercept X Endpoint installed
* Access to the [Sophos Central Cloud console](https://central.sophos.com/)
* [Filebeat 7 installed](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Terminal access to the instance running Filebeat. It is recommended to run the Sophos API script from the same instance running your Filebeat.



<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure Sophos to collect the Central Cloud logs

Follow the official instructions provided by Sophos for [collecting Sophos Central Cloud logs from all machines](https://support.sophos.com/support/s/article/KB-000036372?language=en_US).

The procedure involves using the Sophos API. Make sure that the `config.ini` used in the Sophos siem.py script is under `format = json` (this is the default setting).

##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

For HTTPS shipping, download the Logz.io public certificate to your certificate authority folder.

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Filebeat\Logzio.crt`
on your machine.


##### Configure Filebeat

Open the Filebeat configuration file (`C:\Program Files\Filebeat\filebeat.yml`) with your preferred text editor.

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


Copy and paste the code block below, overwriting the previous content, to replace the general configuration with the following settings:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#For version 7 and higher
filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
#The following processors are to ensure compatibility with version 7
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "type"
       to: "event_type"
    ignore_missing: true
- add_fields:
    target: ''
    fields:
      type: "sophos-ep"
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "log.file.path"
       to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
- drop_event:
    when:
      regexp:
        message: "^\\s*$"
#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Filebeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

Change `<<FILE_PATH>>` to the output TXT file retrieved from the Sophos siem.py script.


One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.

##### Start Filebeat

Start or restart Filebeat for the changes to take effect.


##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can search or filter for Sophos logs, under `type:sophos-ep`.

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

##### Contact support to request custom parsing assistance

The logs will require customized parsing so they can be effectively mapped in Open Search Dashboards.

[Email our support](mailto:help@logz.io?subject=Requesting%20parsing%20assistance%20for%20Sophos%20security%20logs&body=Hi!%20Please%20be%20in%20touch%20with%20further%20instructions%20for%20parsing%20Sophos%20security%20logs.%20Thanks!) to request custom parsing assistance.


</div>

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/sophos.md, after:

---
title: Ship logs from Sophos
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship logs from Sophos to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: sophos-shield.png
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Sophos
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
contributors:
  - shalper
  - nshishkin
shipping-tags:
  - endpoint-security
order: 740
---
<!-- tabContainer:start -->
<div class="branching-container">

* [Sophos for Linux](#linux)
* [Sophos for Windows](#windows)
{:.branching-tabs}

<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="linux">

Sophos Endpoint is an endpoint protection product that combines antimalware, web and application control, device control and much more. This integration allows you to send logs from your Linux-based Sophos applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Sophos Intercept X Endpoint installed
* Access to the [Sophos Central Cloud console](https://central.sophos.com/)
* [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Terminal access to the instance running Filebeat. It is recommended to run the Sophos API script from the same instance running your Filebeat.



<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure Sophos to collect the Central Cloud logs

Follow the official instructions provided by Sophos for [collecting Sophos Central Cloud logs from all machines](https://support.sophos.com/support/s/article/KB-000036372?language=en_US).

The procedure involves using the Sophos API. Make sure that the `config.ini` used in the Sophos siem.py script is under `format = json` (this is the default setting).

{% include log-shipping/certificate.md %}

##### Configure Filebeat

Open the Filebeat configuration file (`/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`) with your preferred text editor.

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


Copy and paste the code block below, overwriting the previous content, to replace the general configuration with the following settings:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: filestream
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

If you're running Filebeat 7 to 8.1, paste the code block below instead:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#For version 7 and higher
filebeat.registry.path: /var/lib/filebeat
#The following processors are to ensure compatibility with version 7
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "type"
       to: "event_type"
    ignore_missing: true
- add_fields:
    target: ''
    fields:
      type: "sophos-ep"
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "log.file.path"
       to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
- drop_event:
    when:
      regexp:
        message: "^\\s*$"
#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['/etc/pki/tls/certs/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```




{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

Change `<<FILE_PATH>>` to the output TXT file retrieved from the Sophos siem.py script.


One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.

##### Start Filebeat

[Start or restart Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/master/filebeat-starting.html) for the changes to take effect.


##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can search or filter for Sophos logs, under `type:sophos-ep`.

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

##### Contact support to request custom parsing assistance

The logs will require customized parsing so they can be effectively mapped in Open Search Dashboards.

[Email our support](mailto:help@logz.io?subject=Requesting%20parsing%20assistance%20for%20Sophos%20security%20logs&body=Hi!%20Please%20be%20in%20touch%20with%20further%20instructions%20for%20parsing%20Sophos%20security%20logs.%20Thanks!) to request custom parsing assistance.


</div>

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->


<!-- tab:start -->
<div id="windows">
Sophos Endpoint is an endpoint protection product that combines antimalware, web and application control, device control and much more. This integration allows you to send logs from your Windows-based Sophos applications to your Logz.io SIEM account.

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* Sophos Intercept X Endpoint installed
* Access to the [Sophos Central Cloud console](https://central.sophos.com/)
* [Filebeat 7 installed](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation.html)
* Terminal access to the instance running Filebeat. It is recommended to run the Sophos API script from the same instance running your Filebeat.



<div class="tasklist">

##### Configure Sophos to collect the Central Cloud logs

Follow the official instructions provided by Sophos for [collecting Sophos Central Cloud logs from all machines](https://support.sophos.com/support/s/article/KB-000036372?language=en_US).

The procedure involves using the Sophos API. Make sure that the `config.ini` used in the Sophos siem.py script is under `format = json` (this is the default setting).

##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

For HTTPS shipping, download the Logz.io public certificate to your certificate authority folder.

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Filebeat\Logzio.crt`
on your machine.


##### Configure Filebeat

Open the Filebeat configuration file (`C:\Program Files\Filebeat\filebeat.yml`) with your preferred text editor.

{% include log-shipping/filebeat-input-extension.md %}


Copy and paste the code block below, overwriting the previous content, to replace the general configuration with the following settings:

```yaml
#... Filebeat
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - <<FILE_PATH>>
  fields:
    token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  fields_under_root: true
  json.keys_under_root: true
  encoding: utf-8
  ignore_older: 3h

#For version 7 and higher
filebeat.registry.path: 'C:\ProgramData\Filebeat'
#The following processors are to ensure compatibility with version 7
processors:
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "type"
       to: "event_type"
    ignore_missing: true
- add_fields:
    target: ''
    fields:
      type: "sophos-ep"
- rename:
    fields:
     - from: "log.file.path"
       to: "source"
    ignore_missing: true
- drop_event:
    when:
      regexp:
        message: "^\\s*$"
#... Output
output:
  logstash:
    hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>"]
    ssl:
      certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Filebeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```

{% include log-shipping/listener-var.html %} 

{% include log-shipping/log-shipping-token.html %}

Change `<<FILE_PATH>>` to the output TXT file retrieved from the Sophos siem.py script.


One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.

##### Start Filebeat

Start or restart Filebeat for the changes to take effect.


##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd). You can search or filter for Sophos logs, under `type:sophos-ep`.

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

##### Contact support to request custom parsing assistance

The logs will require customized parsing so they can be effectively mapped in Open Search Dashboards.

[Email our support](mailto:help@logz.io?subject=Requesting%20parsing%20assistance%20for%20Sophos%20security%20logs&body=Hi!%20Please%20be%20in%20touch%20with%20further%20instructions%20for%20parsing%20Sophos%20security%20logs.%20Thanks!) to request custom parsing assistance.


</div>

</div>
<!-- tab:end -->

</div>
<!-- tabContainer:end -->
