_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/sysmon.md, before:

---
title: Ship Sysmon logs from Windows Server
logo:
  logofile: windows.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Sysmon
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["beats-logs"]
contributors:
  - shalper
shipping-tags:
  - windows
order: 490
---

Sysmon (System Monitor) is a Windows system service that monitors and logs system activity of the Windows event log. It tracks process creations, network connections, and changes to file creation time.


#### Configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* [Winlogbeat 7](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/winlogbeat-7-0-0) installed.

* [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) installed and configured according to the [SwiftOnSecurity configuration](https://github.com/SwiftOnSecurity/sysmon-config).

<div class="tasklist">

##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt`
on your machine.

##### Configure Windows applications as an input

If you're working with the default configuration file, clear the content and start with a fresh file. (The location may be `C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml` or `C:\Program Files\Winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml`, depending on where you installed it.)


Paste this code block:

```yaml
File Content:
winlogbeat.event_logs:
  - name: Microsoft-windows-sysmon/Operational
    ignore_older: 72h
fields:
  logzio_codec: json
  token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  type: wineventlog
fields_under_root: true
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "agent"
        to: "beat_agent"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log.file.path"
        to: "source"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log"
        to: "log_information"
      ignore_missing: true
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```



{% include /general-shipping/replace-placeholders.html %}


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


##### Restart Winlogbeat

Open PowerShell as an admin and run this command:

```powershell
Restart-Service winlogbeat
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

</div>

Commit message:

Kibana to osd (#2378)
* kibana to osd

* remove calendly link

* meta and images

* meta and image

_source/logzio_collections/_security-sources/sysmon.md, after:

---
title: Ship Sysmon logs from Windows Server
image: https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/social-assets/docs-social.jpg
description: Ship Sysmon logs from Windows Server to Logz.io
logo:
  logofile: windows.svg
  orientation: vertical
data-source: Sysmon
data-for-product-source: Cloud SIEM
templates: ["beats-logs"]
contributors:
  - shalper
shipping-tags:
  - windows
order: 490
---

Sysmon (System Monitor) is a Windows system service that monitors and logs system activity of the Windows event log. It tracks process creations, network connections, and changes to file creation time.


#### Configuration

**Before you begin, you'll need**:

* [Winlogbeat 7](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/winlogbeat-7-0-0) installed.

* [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) installed and configured according to the [SwiftOnSecurity configuration](https://github.com/SwiftOnSecurity/sysmon-config).

<div class="tasklist">

##### Download the Logz.io public certificate

Download the
[Logz.io public certificate]({% include log-shipping/certificate-path.md %})
to `C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt`
on your machine.

##### Configure Windows applications as an input

If you're working with the default configuration file, clear the content and start with a fresh file. (The location may be `C:\ProgramData\Elastic\Beats\winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml` or `C:\Program Files\Winlogbeat\winlogbeat.yml`, depending on where you installed it.)


Paste this code block:

```yaml
File Content:
winlogbeat.event_logs:
  - name: Microsoft-windows-sysmon/Operational
    ignore_older: 72h
fields:
  logzio_codec: json
  token: <<LOG-SHIPPING-TOKEN>>
  type: wineventlog
fields_under_root: true
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "agent"
        to: "beat_agent"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log.file.path"
        to: "source"
      ignore_missing: true
  - rename:
      fields:
      - from: "log"
        to: "log_information"
      ignore_missing: true
output.logstash:
  hosts: ["<<LISTENER-HOST>>:5015"]
  ssl:
    certificate_authorities: ['C:\ProgramData\Winlogbeat\COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt']
```



{% include /general-shipping/replace-placeholders.html %}


<!-- info-box-start:info -->
One last validation - make sure Logz.io is the only output and appears only once.
If the file has other outputs, remove them.
{:.info-box.note}
<!-- info-box-end -->


##### Restart Winlogbeat

Open PowerShell as an admin and run this command:

```powershell
Restart-Service winlogbeat
```

##### Check Logz.io for your logs

Give your logs some time to get from your system to ours, and then open [Open Search Dashboards](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/osd).

If you still don't see your logs, see [Filebeat troubleshooting](https://docs.logz.io/shipping/log-sources/filebeat.html#troubleshooting).

</div>
